DESCRIPTION:

XBlockbuster is a variation of the break-out type games, only a bit more
complex in the type of bricks it has and effects the bricks have.  It should
run on any X11 system (color or black and white).

RESTRICTIONS:
	This game may be freely copied or distributed as long as no fee
is required.  Since the code is a mixture of both the original and my
own, I make no claims on it.  However, if you do use it for something
else, credit would by nice.

TO BUILD:

    If you want to use the Imakefile, all that is needed is:

	1) xmkmf
	2) make
	3) make install

    If you don't want to use the Imakefile, do the following:
	1) cp Makefile.noIm Makefile
	2) Edit the Makefile.  Everything should be fairly well documented.
           You should make sure that whatever FONT is defined to is available
	   on your system, or the program will not work (use xlsfonts to see
	   what fonts your server provides.)  I believe the default font as
	    distributed (10x20) is part of the X11R5 distribution.
	3) make
	4) make install

	XBlockbuster can use the same playground that Blockbuster (the sunview
version) does, if you already have that installed.  Set LIBDIR appropriately
to use the same playground.

	I have successfully compiled the source with both cc and gcc on
a sun 3/sunos 4.1.1.

	After you have set up the Makefile to your satisfaction, type:


FILES (of interest):

CHANGES: changes made from blockbuster to xblockbuster.

RATIONAL.SV, README.SV: Files from the original SunView version that may be
	of interest to people.

XBlockbuster.ad: X Defaults I use for coloring the bricks.
	NOTE: xblockbuster will not use these values if they are installed
	in the standard app-defaults directory.  They MUST be read in
	by xrdb, either by being in the user .Xdefaults file or by
	perform xrdb on XBlockbuster.ad file itself.

icons (directory):  Contains the brick images, as well as a few other.  Brick
	images with _alt in the name are the alternate images used for color.
	(See the manual page for more information on coloring the bricks and
	alternate bricks.)

TODO:

 A nice opening screen, showing the bricks (with proper coloring, if 
applicable), along with descriptions of what each brick does.

 Fix some of the remaining bugs (most are quite minor, or happen very
infrequently)

 Use a setuid mechanism so that the save directory and score files don't
need to be publicly writable.

 Make it so the xblockbuster will read in the XBlockbuster.ad file if
it is stored in the standard place.

 Fix the BUGS as listed in the man page.

NOTES:
	As far as I know, this should run on pretty much any system that
has X installed.  However, I am limited to only running it on a sun 3/60,
so that is all it has been tested under (X11R5).

	I will maintain it and release patches as required. 

Mark Wedel
master@cats.ucsc.edu
March 10, 1993

