
This tree contains the freely distributed Continuous Media Toolkit
form the Berkeley Plateau Multimedia Research Group. This toolkit
allow rapid prototyping and building of distributed multimedia applications.
Data formats currently supported include: Motion JPEG, MPEG-I, and 
8 kHz ulaw audio (SPARC audio). Output devices currently supported are: J300,
Parallax, SunVideo, X with software decoding, AudioFile, and raw SPARC /dev/audio 
devices. 

The system has been compiled and preliminarily tested on the following
platforms:

Sun SPARC (SunOS 4.X, X11R5)
Sun SPARC (Solaris)
HP 700 series workstations (HPUX 9.X, X11R5)
Dec Alpha (OSF/1)

If you decide to port the code to a new architecture or enhance the
performance of the code, please let us know so that we can incorporate
the changes into our sources.

What follow is an overview of the toolkit:

1) What is the Continuous Media Toolkit?

The Continuous Media (CM) Toolkit is composed of two programs, named
cmsh and cmwish. These programs are modified Tcl/Tk interpreters that
have CM objects compiled into them. A CM object is able to deal with
a specific continuous media data type and perform specific functions.
For example, the mpegSegment object is able to read MPEG data from files
on disk and stream the information to another object. Applications are
built using cmsh and cmwish that create and connect CM objects togethor
in order to construct "pipelines" through which multimedia information
flows. Currently, the toolkit is distrubuted with one application, cmplayer,
that handles remote playback of video and audio.

2) What is the difference between cmsh and cmwish?

Cmwish is a full Tcl/Tk interpreter with Tcl-DP and the new CM objects
compiled into it. Cmsh does not have a full Tk package. Instead, it may
or may not create a connection to the X server (this is a runtime option),
it does not create a window nor does it know about graphical widgets. In
addition, the only CM objects it knows about are objects that do not require
an X server or any other sort of graphical object. The cmsh is designed to
be run on video file servers to stream information across the network.

3) What is cmplayer?

Cmplayer is an application that utilizes the CM Toolkit for remote or local
video and audio playback. Cmplayer uses a script format to indicate which
video and audio clips should be played. The video and audio clips are
specified using the cmtp URL. Documentation on the cmpt URL, how it is resolved,
and how it is used is provided in the CM Toolkit Introduction document.

4) What kind of continuous media data can be accessed?

Currently, the system supports three stream types:

  Sparc audio.
  This data type is the same as a SPARC audio file. These objects work
  best with 8kHz ulaw data, but there is some support for 8 bit linear and 16 
  bit linear audio as well.

  Motion JPEG streams
  This data type is produced by a variety of JPEG video boards including the
  Parallax XVideo board (.vid files), and the DEC J300 board (.avi files). 
  In addition, the system can handle a file with a sequence of JFIF frames as 
  if it were a Motion JPEG stream. 

  MPEG video streams
  This data type is just a standard MPEG-I video only stream. We currently
  do not handle interleaved streams or streams with MPEG-I system streams.

  Objects for other stream types are being implemented and some objects for
  other stream types may exist. We would be happy to incorporate new objects
  for stream types not currently handled.

Although the objects that read these video types can read data as it currently
exists, it must parse through the data an construct tables about the positions
of frames in the file and other information. To avoid doing this expensive
operation every time the data is accessed, we have come up with file formats
that encapsulate the data with the various tables pre-computed. We call these
files chunk files.

5) What is a chunk file?

A chunk file is a data file that has had format specific information pre-parsed
out stored in various tables and headers. A chunk file consists of one or more
"chunks" that are organized for quick parsing and searching. Embedded as a chunk
is the original data file. Utilities exist for creating chunkfiles from XVideo
.vid files, J300 .avi files, MPEG-I video files, and 8kHz ulaw files. These
utilities exist in the directory "utilities".

6) What is a cmplayer script?

A cmplayer script is a Tcl script that indicates which streams
to play. The script format is discussed in more detail in separate documentation.
One feature of the script format is the use of cmtp URL to specify
the location of files. A cmtp URL has the following form:

cmtp://<host_name>?:<port>?/<file_name>

The cmplayer resolves this URL by contacting <host_name> at the port number
<port> and issuing a specific command asking for the URL to be translated.
The result of the command can either be a tuple indicating which cm process
to contact and the actual filename or another URL that is resolved again.
In this way, the cmplayer can utilize location independent scripts where the
actual data is managed by some external agent (perhaps a video-on-demand system).

7) How should I start?

Start by reading the CM_Intro.ps document found in doc/book. This document
covers in more detail the various aspects of the toolkit. Example code is
located in doc/examples. These examples will give you a good flavor for how
quickly prototype applications can be built. The man pages in doc/man provide
more object specific information. In addition, a full set of documentation
is provided in html format in the directory doc/html.



