Installation Notes

	You will need to modify the DIR define in defs.h to match
where you will be installing the xlife pattern libraries. The value
will be what xlife pops up as the default load path.

	Past that, not much needs to be done. Just compile and have
at some of the more interesting patterns shipped along with the
program

	breeder : the full blown breeder pattern which constructs
			and infinite number of glider guns as it
			moves to the right in the universe. This
			is *big*.

	cmu : well, if you didn't know already, CMU's official logo
		is a 14 degree square. Run this to see *why* it is.
		Just kidding ... really >:-)

	plus lots and lots of nifty patterns which have been snarfed
	from all over the place. You should see somewhere in there
	just about every interesting little creature you ever heard
	of. If you come up with any more good patterns (hopefully smaller
	than the breeder :-), please send them over to us!

	If you feel up to it, the TODO file lists some things we would
like to add into the game ... if you implement any of these, please send
us the patches.

	About file formats - lifeconv is a filter that will switch life 
file formats for you. If you have the patterns from the initial 1.0
release, you may want to run lifeconv on all of the patterns. It isn't
really neccesary since the new loader assumes the old format if none is
specified in the file (see the man page), but lifeconv will convert
the image to the smallest representation, and will allow offset loading.


			Jon (jcrb@cs.cmu.edu)
			Dan (dl2n@andrew.cmu.edu)
			Chuck (cs4n@andrew.cmu.edu)
 			Eric (eric@snark.uu.net)


NEW PATTERNS (that we particularly remember) :

p[1-9][1-9]*		-	oscillators of period n
centinial		-	*s*entinal (i kin spill weyl :-)
longsnake		-	collapsing gliders
gourmet			-	interesting new clock pattern
randomgun		-	look carefully, then beat your head against
					the wall to clear your brain.
alu			-	even worse
counter			-	my head hurts ...
blockpusher*		-	push da weetle block down the screen ...
slowship*		-	*large* spaceships


PATTERN ARCHIVING :

If you discover new and interesting life patterns, let us know! Please
send the xlife savefile to

	dl2n+xlife@andrew.cmu.edu

	or post to

	comp.theory.cell-automata

These will be incorporated into the xlife distribution. Periodically, 
we will also post the latest and greatest discoveries to 
comp.theory.cell-automata.
