     This is a multi-player hearts game which uses sockets for
communication.  The client programs support curses, X/Motif, and
X/Xaw.  The present distribution requires imake to build.

     I picked up hearts from the net three or four years ago.  This
package included the basic guts with a curses interface.  The original
README contents follows.

     After I picked it up I modified the computer play strategy,
presumably for the better.  I also made the Jack of Diamonds worth -10
since that's the way I like to play.

     Not until now did I finally write the X clients (xmhearts,
xawhearts).  The Xaw client is a quick translation of the Motif
version, so it's not as great.

     To install:

	1.  Change the appropriate definitions in local.h to indicate
	    where the dealer and distributor binaries live.  Also, if
	    you're building with X11R4 instead of X11R5, #define X11R4
	    so that xawclient.c uses the proper enum names.

	2.  If you don't have Motif, edit Imakefile so that NO_MOTIF
	    is defined.

	3.  Build the Makefile using imake or xmkmf.

	4.  "make"

	5.  Put heartsd, hearts_dist, and hearts.instr in the HEARTSLIB
	    directory defined in local.h and make them world-accessible.

	6.  Put the clients (hearts, xmhearts, xawhearts) in the
	    appropriate directory (e.g. /usr/bin/X11 or /usr/local/bin).

     If you get "Can't open a dealer port!" or "Distributor port in
use!"  error messages when you run one of the clients, adjust PORT and
DIST_PORT in local.h so that they refer to free ports.

	Mike Yang
	mikey@sgi.com

----------------------------------------------------------------------

     This is the initial release of multi-player hearts.  Hearts is just
another brain-damaged card game.  This version supports multiple players
across a network (hopefully) and also multiple games.  Users can select
which game to join via a hearts distributor menu that shows games in
progress and their current status.
     Hearts has been tested on a 4.3 BSD system and on a 4.1 BSD-based
perversion of Unix.  Unfortunately, it has not been tested across a network
due to lack of access to such an arrangement.  Oh, well...  I'm sure I'll
hear about it if it doesn't work.
     In a future release I plan to rewrite the computer strategy and add a
high score list option to the menu.  Not too sure what the form of the high
score list will take; perhaps top 10 averages for a given period or something.
I'm open to suggestions on that.
     I'm releasing this version now, to get any bug reports out of the way
before I release the next version, and because I'm not sure when I'll get
around to implementing the above-mentioned mods.  I imagine it will partly
be up to the response I receive from this version.

     Send gripes, bug-fixes, amazing stories, etc. to:
	Bob Ankeney
	...!tektronix!reed!bob

