AntipoliX v2.0
By Bernard BROSS

1 - Basic principles
--------------------

  This game is played in a parallelepipede containing PxNxN little
cubes. You can first consider this 3D board as P 2D checkerboards of
NxN squares.
  From 2 up to 10 players can confront each other.
  Each player begins with a certain number of pieces (or armies) that
he has to move and make attack. One of his pieces represents him-self
(or the chief, or the king, or anything you want). If this piece die,
the player is eliminated. The last player staying alive has won.
  Messages can be send to the other players , so that alliances can be
implemented.
  A special timer assures that the game remain dynamic.


2 - Pieces
----------

  There are three different kinds of pieces :
- fortresses
- armies (terrestrial)
- hovercrafts (aerial)

- Fortresses can't move but give strong defense to surrounding pieces.
- Armies have moving field of 1 square (cube), and have strength of 2.
- Hovercrafts have moving field of 2 squares (cubes), and have strength of 1.

  The moving field of each piece is a cube centered on the piece.
(pieces can move in every direction => 26 possibilities if not on edge).

  Each piece has its own particular caracteristic, among these one :
- Invisibility
- Teleporter
- Chief (only one piece)
- nothing

  At the beginning of game, each player, in turn, chooses and places
his pieces, respecting the budget he has been allocated, knowing that
the cost of a piece depends on its type and its caracteristic (see
table below).
  To place a piece, you have to click on a square, and, keeping the
square highlighted, hit the key corresponding to the type of piece you
want to put (see ch. 7).
  Do the same for the caracteristics.
  One of the pieces must be the chief. A player is eliminated when
losing his chief. A player wins when every other players have been
eliminated.
  Caracteristics of pieces are not seen by opponents (you can see only
the caracteristics of your pieces). Invisible pieces don't appear at
all on opponent boards.

3 - Movements
-------------

  Players make their movements SIMULTANEOUSLY (1 movement by turn), so
that the server will wait until having received the movement
(eventually nul) of each player to generate new positions and go on
next turn.

* Server will resolve movements in reception order.
  
  A movement is either a displacement or an attack :

  A displacement order is given by selecting one of your pieces and an
empty square. Server will validate this displacement if the empty
square (cube) is effectively in the moving field of the piece.

  An attack is launched by selecting one or several of your pieces and
an ennemy piece. Server will verify that target is effectively in
moving field of each attacking piece. Then it will resolve the battle,
by comparing attacking power with defending power.
  Attacking power is equal to the sum of attacking pieces strengths.
  Defending power is equal to the sum of strengths of attacked piece,
and surrouding pieces in a one square radius (it means strengths of
pieces in a 3x3x3 (if not on edge) cube centered on attacked piece).
  When attacking power strictly overcomes defending power, attack is
successful, otherwise it fails.
  If attack fails, nothing happens.
  If attack succeeds, the fate of the attacked piece is uncertain :
- in 40% of cases, the piece is immediately destroyed. If it was a
chief, then the corresponding player if eliminated, and all his pieces
become attacker's property.
- in 30% of cases, the piece is teleported on a randomly choosed
square (cube) of the universe. if this square is already occuped, the
piece is destroyed.
- in the last 30% of cases, the piece becomes attacker's property.

* It is not possible to attack an invisible piece. But any movement of
any kind of piece (visible or not) into the square of an ennemy
invisible piece causes destruction of the latter.

* Invisible pieces can help defending an adjacent piece as can do
visible pieces.

4 - Teleportation
-----------------

  Teleportation operates only between two teleporters (two pieces
having teleporting characteristic). It can be used for displacement
or attack as well.
  In every cases, teleportation works if source teleporter is in
"teleportation field" of destination teleporter, or if destination
teleporter can be joined by source teleporter by a chain of
teleporters, each of them being in "teleportation field" of the next
one in chain.
  "Teleportation field" is a modifiable parameter of the server, that
should be 4 squares (cubes) by default.
  
- For displacement, the piece must be NEAR the source teleporter (it
means, it must be on one of the 26 squares around the
teleporter). Then, this piece can end its movement on a square located
in movement field of destination teleporter.

* "Movement field" is also a modifiable parameter of the server. Each
time it's used in text, it depends on the type of piece we are talking
about. (Moving field is 2 for hovercraft, 1 for armie).

- Any moving piece (armie or hovercraft, for now) can attack an ennemy
piece if it can move on the square of the attacked piece, using
teleportation or not. For instance, a piece A can be selected to attack
B if A could move (using telportation or not) into B square in one
turn. Considering that, it is necessary, that a teleporter piece to
be in "attacking piece moving field" of attacked piece.


5 - Time
--------

  Each player begins the game with an equal credit of time in his
timer (depending on the number of players). Every turn, while no
player has send his movement to the server, all timers stay freezed.
  As soon as a player has send his movement, his timer increases (it
means, he gains time for next turns), while timers of other players
decrease.
  These timer variations are calculated by server in such a way, that
total distributed time is constant.
  Thus, let's take a 5 players game example : as soon as first
player has send his movement to the server, its timer will increase
of 4 units every second, while timer of other players will decrease of
1 unit every second.
  When 2 players will have send their movement, their timer will
increase of 3 units every second, while the other 3 timers will
decrease of 2 units.
  The last player having not send its movement will see its timer
decrease of 4 units every second, while other timers will increase of
1 unit in the same laps.

  Any player whose timer falls to zero is eliminated.

6 - Messages
------------

  You can send, at any moment of the game (except during pieces
placement phase, at the begining), a message to another player, on
condition that sender has at least one piece near one of receiver
pieces, by hiting receiver number (0-9).

  You can also send a message to everybody, at any time, and without
restrictive condition, by hiting 'a' key.

  A few special commands can be send to server (hit m), using messages :
- to give up (to quit), send to server : "QUIT"
- to propose nul game to every other players : "NUL"
- to come back from a previous nul game proposition : "WAR"

* Games is nul and aborted when every players have send "NUL" to
server.


7 - Keys
--------

  0 - 9 : send a message (to player 0 - 9)
  a : send a message to everybody
  m : send a special command to server

  a : armie
  h : hovercraft
  f : fortress
  <spacebar> : nothing
  
  i : invisible
  t : teleporter
  c : chief
  n : normal

  <return> : send to server : start position, movement or message
  
  v : change universe viewing mode (see relative chapter)
  u / j : choose wich 3 boards to see among all boards
  o / p : change baords viewing direction
  CTRL u / j : change boards viewing angle


8 - Pieces costs, moving fields and strengths table
---------------------------------------------------

  These are default values. They can be easily changed, when starting
the server.

Types:                Cost       Force          Moves
a - Armie               3         2               1
h - Hovercraft          2         1               2
f - Fortress           12         5(def)          0

Caracteristics:
i - Invisible           5         -               -
t - Teleporter          10        -              +4
c - Chief (unique)      -         -               -


9 - Players scores
------------------

  Each player has it's own score in players file, that is intended
to represent his ability at AntipoliX.
  A new character begins with a score of 0.
  Scores change only after non nul games.
  Consider a game with 5 players :
- the winner will increase his score of 5 points.
- the first player to be eliminated has his score decreased of 4 points.
- the second player to be eliminated has his score decreased of 3 points.
... and so on...

  A score can't be inferior than 0 : if having a score of 0 and losing
a game, your score remains 0.

  Players window give informations on every players in the game as
follows :

(number in game)  Name  [ email ]  :  score


--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   -----------------------------------
                            -----------------
