Installation guide to strn.

1.  Get the current version of the strn distribution.
    (Apply any official patches if needed.)

2.  Read the file README in the src directory first.  That will lead
you to the file INSTALL for trn's installation instuctions.  Follow
them up to the final installation step.

3.  When you type "make install", you will be given a list of options
for the strn installation.  If you wish to share the trn libraries with
trn 3.4 (or later), and trn 3.4 (or later) is already installed, type
"make install.strn".  If you do not have trn installed, or you want
strn to use a separate library directory, type "make install.full"
Note: the installation process does not strip the strn binary--you
must do that yourself.

4.  Type "make install.help" to install the help files in the library
directory.  If the help files were installed, they will be moved to
help.old.  (The old copy is kept in case local changes were made.)

	You're finished!  Have fun with strn.

				--Cliff

Possible installation problems:

1.  Strn is written on top of trn, which has taken great care to be portable.
Still, strn may not work properly on some machines.  If you get
compilation errors, read the instructions below.  If those
instructions do not solve the problem, please mail the errors, and any
other relevant information to me <caadams@access.digex.net>.  Any "detective"
work will be greatly appreciated.

2.  Some features of strn could cause problems on some systems.
One of these features is the "nice background" option controlled by the
NICEBG option.  If you have problems with keyboard input, you might
want to try disabling this option (send me mail if you have problems).
You can disable NICEBG by editing config.h and searching for a line like:
#define NICEBG /* */
...and changing it to:
/* #define NICEBG /* */

3.  If you have problems compiling "term.c", try undefining the NICEBG
option.  (You shouldn't need to do this, since it is now checked for
at Configure time.)

4.  SGI machines running Irix and the system-provided cc may need the
-common option to work.  (GCC compiled strn perfectly on that machine.)

5.  If you do not have the strstr function in your standard C
libraries, look for the new #define option HAVE_STRSTR, at the end
of config.h (it is defined by default)  If you do *not* have the strstr
function in your standard C libraries, edit config.h and comment out
the #define HAVE_STRSTR statement, then recompile strn.  Later I hope
to have strstr detected automatically.  (The config.h file is produced
by running Configure.)
