This directory contains interpreted programs.
Most of them are run by ksh or gawk; a couple are oash programs.
The gawk programs expect to have gawk 2.15.5 available as /local/bin/gawk.  
I have submitted gawk 2.15.6; it should be copied or symlinked to that path.
Almost all of these have help available by giving the program a -h argument.
The latest versions of all of these are always at "ftp://ftp.armory.com/pub".  
An HTML index is at "http://www.armory.com/~john/ftpIndex.html".
You can reach the author at john@armory.com.

add        Add up the numbers in a column in a tab-separated-column file.
addrem     Send a reminder to yourself or other on this or another system.
address    Look up an address in address databases.
adduser    Add a user to the system using an account description.
aj         Prints all the "interesting" jobs you are running on any terminal.
allmail    Read a set of mail folders.
arc2tarz   Convert an "arc" archive to a compressed tar archive.
asc        Print the ASCII values of text characters.
autologin  Automatically log in a user on a specific tty, to be run from init.
aw         Report what the active (idle less than n minutes) users are doing.
bell       Disable/enable bell on terminals; set visual bell on console.
bigcal     Print a big calendar.
bigfiles   Find large uncompressed files (candidates for compression).
bills      Process a receipts file & generate statistics from it.
boxchars   Show the terminfo box drawing characters for a terminal.
brandimg   Imprint text on images.
callout    Turn uucico or cu callout on and off.
capture    Capture the current XENIX/UNIX console screen to a file.
cbase      Convert C-style constants to decimal.
check      Check whether you or another user has new mail.
checkhomes Find home directories that are writable by anyone.
checks     Minimal checking account tracking utility.
chfssize   Change AFS & EAFS filesystem size.
chkbackup  Check multi-extent tape backups.
chkboot    Check or rewrite masterboot, boot0, and boot1 files.
chkdaemon  Restart daemons that have died.
chklost    Report types of files in lost+found directories.
chksulog   Print interesting lines from su(C) logfile.
chr        Print the characters whose ASCII values you give.
chuser     Change user's login name.
cmorse     Convert text to morse code tones (console only).
cmp_termio Compare tty parameters.
comptree   Compares the files in two directory trees.
conglom    Concatenate files to other files & remove the originals.
corename   Tell what produced a core file.
dial       Look up and dial a number.
dissociate Run processes dissociated from tty.
divisions  Generate report on fdisk & divvy layout of system hard drives.
dofiles    Deal with all those file that accumulate in your directories.
edcron     Edit your existing crontab file & automatically resubmit it.
editmbox   Select messages from an old mailbox to delete or save.
efn        Move files by editing their file names with your favorite editor.
exp        Process a multi-party expenses description file.
exp_notify Send notification of expenses owed, by email.
fb         Command line interface to bc; also invokes bc with high precision.
fbackup    cpio filesystem backup utility.
fdminor    Show meaning of floppy drive device node minor numbers.
filt       Pass files through a specified filter.
find_cryst Find a crystal & divisor that will produce a desired freqency.
fix_newsrc Clean up a .newsrc by removing unread article ranges.
fixdate    Fix up the date fields of records in a file.
fixnames   Deal with filenames that contain problematic characters.
fmtawksh   Format awk and ksh programs for printing.
frcp       Copy files using ftp but with rcp-type command line syntax.
from       Show who you have mail from.
fs         Show filesystem space and inode usage.
ftplog     Generate transfer report from wuftpd log file.
ftpreport  Mail ftp transfer reports to users.
groups     Show what groups you or another user are in.
hdminor    Show meaning of hard drive device node minor numbers.
htmlweb    Show how local HTML files are interconnected by hot links.
httplog    Process httpd logfiles to generate statistics.
httpmon    Generate running display of HTTP requests.
ibmchars   Diplay IBM extended characters and their decimal and octal values.
iu         List the number of files that exist in and below directories.
kvar       Print values of kernel variables.
l-d        Print a long listing of directories only.
l-len      Print a long directory listing sorted by filename length.
l-z        Print a long directory listing sorted by file size.
lastlogin  Print last login times of users.
lchild     List processes on this tty that have children.
ld_unix    Link a new kernel from object files without rebuilding it.
lensort    Sort lines by their length.
linerec    Concatenate records into lines.
logins     Enable or disable logins without changing init state.
loginstat  Print statistics on user logins (takes a while to run).
lowercase  Change filenames to lower case.
mailalert  Invoked to report on new mail if you've done "mbiff on"
mailias    Reformat a mail alias.
maillist   Print & change the contents of system mailing lists.
mailq      Show the status of the MMDF & UUCP mail queues.
maim       Kill processes by name.
manifest   Print manifest defines set by cc.
mbiff      Turn on & off mail notification (sort of like biff).
mbill      Process monthly bill description files.
memuse     Show real & swap memory usage.
mk_hexkeys Create a mapkey file that allows hexadecimal input of any character.
mkdirlist  Make a file of directory names for searching with 'look'.
mkhexrec   Translate input in a simple format into Intel hex records.
mlast      Report last logins on modem lines.
mlookup    Tell what a mail address will be expanded to.
mmdfq      Report on files waiting in MMDF delivery queues.
mmdfsel    Manipulate MMDF jobs (requires oash)
modems     Show who is using the modems.
mvuser     Move a user's home directory to a different parent directory.
name       Print the "real" names of users.
ncp        A nicer front end for cp (has -i, etc.).
newext     Change the extension of a group of files.
newinfo    Modify a terminfo description and execute a process using it.
newinittab Build a new inittab file.
nfile      Invoke a command on files and add filenames to its output.
nidleout   An idleout that allows user- tty-, and process-specific behaviour.
nmv        A nicer front end for mv (has -i, etc.).
numexec    Process pacct file & report on # of times each process executed.
oldusers   Find users who have not logged in for a specified period.
p          A pager front end that handles compressed files.
pacctmon   Show processes as they exit, using the process accounting system.
pages      Print specified pages from files.
postings   Use postings file to generate report of which groups were posted to.
ppmbrowse  Build an image browser.
procrem    Receive a reminder note by mail.
proctree   Display process parent-child relationships in tree format.
psf        Show processes that have particular files open.
psn        Lists processes whose name matches a pattern.
pss        List processes sorted by any column.
ptyclean   Print or kill off processes on ptys whose master side has closed.
quota      Show disk quotas
quotcmp    Compare the output of two or more runs of quot(C)
rename     Change the names of files that match a pattern.
repeat     Execute a command multiple times.
roff2html  Attempt to convert *roff files to HTML formatting.
segclock   A 25-segment-display clock.
send       Send a file by mail.
setperm    Copy permissions from a file to others.
settabs    Restore default tabs on an ANSI terminal.
shorten    Make filenames shorter.
stripmsg   Remove unwanted header lines from message files.
tarz       Create compressed tar archive from directory contents.
te         Locate commands and run other commands on them.
toroff     Converts normal text formatting to *roff formatted text.
treset     Reset ttys by killing gettys.
typematic  Set typematic rate of AT keyboard.
u          List the users who are logged on.
ucomm      Show which files lines occur in & select lines based on that.
ulock      Lock all screens that a user is logged into.
unarch      Unarchive a (possibly compressed) archive into a directory.
uniqmail   Get rid of duplicate mail messages.
unixtime   Converts UNIX-format time values to human-readable form.
upstat     Shows statistics on uptime, reboots, etc. (long runtime!)
usage      Build filesystem space usage file.
userprocs  Show processes users are running in a compact format.
uucon      Find last successful UUCP connections.
uudec      Carefully uudecode multiple files.
uuenc      uuencode multiple files.
uujobs     Report on jobs waiting in UUCP queue.
uumail     Shell script mailer, for testing.
uusel      Manipulate UUCP jobs (requires oash)
ve         Edit a file in $EDITPATH
vectors    Show what interrupts are used for.
vidtype    Tell what type of video adapter console ttys are associated with.
vtree      Print a visual display of a directory tree.
waiting    Symbolically show process' wait channel (like BSD ps).
where      Show where commands that match a pattern are.
zedit      Edit a compressed file.
