	B	Hardware Configuration Notes

UnixWare supports most common hardware controllers and devices. If you 
follow the hardware manufacturer's instructions when installing and 
configuring your hardware, UnixWare will typically detect the hardware and 
configure the software device drivers (if installed) to access the hardware. This 
is particularly true for supported EISA, MCA, and PCI systems. For other 
hardware, such as some ISA hardware, you may need to use the DCU to 
configure the software device drivers.

For details on using the DCU and adding hardware after installing UnixWare, see the 
chapter "Setting Up and Configuring Your Hardware" in the System Owner Handbook.

This appendix provides general information about hardware IRQ settings and 
software device drivers. This appendix also provides recommendations for 
configuring specific hardware in the following categories:

u	Disk Drives

u	HBA Controllers

u	CD-ROM Controllers

u	Cartridge Tape Controllers

u	Network Interface Cards

u	Video Configuration

The recommendations in this appendix indicate the type of hardware 
considerations you may need to consider. Since UnixWare currently supports 
a wide variety of platforms and hardware, with new hardware support 
constantly being added, not every configuration is covered.

To obtain the most recent listing of supported hardware, and hardware-specific 
technical bulletins for UnixWare, contact the Novell FaxBack system at 1-
801-429-5060 or (in the United States or Canada) 1-800-486-4835.

Standard Hardware IRQ Settings

Specific IRQs are typically used for certain hardware devices. Although it is 
possible to configure hardware using nonstandard values, doing so is not 
recommended. The following table lists standard hardware configuration data.

Table B-1
Standard Hardware IRQs

IRQ

Description (driver)

Notes

0

Reserved

1

Keyboard driver (kd)

Reserved

2

Available (IRQ 2 is internally mapped to IRQ 9. When 
choosing IRQ values, you should consider IRQ 2 and 
IRQ 9 to be the same interrupt.)

3

Serial COM2 Port (asyc)

Reserved (can change after installation)

4

Serial COM1 Port (asyc)

Reserved (can change after installation but doing so is 
not recommended)

5

Cartridge tape (ictha) or

Parallel Port #2 (lp)

Recommended cartridge tape setting if installing from 
non-SCSI cartridge tape drive and a printer is not 
assigned to this IRQ

6

Floppy disk (fd)

Reserved 

7

Parallel port #1 (lp)

Required (can change after installation but doing so is 
not recommended)

8

Real-time clock (rtc)

Reserved

9

Available

10

Available

11

Available

12

PS/2 Mouse

Reserved if PS/2 Mouse is installed

13

Math Coprocessor and 
Programmable Interrupt 
Controller (atup)

Reserved

14

Integral hard disk (dcd/athd)

Only required if an IDE, ESDI, or ST506 hard disk is 
installed

15

Available

Typically, distinct hardware controllers must have distinct hardware parameter settings. 
However, you can configure multiple hardware controllers with the same IRQ value 
provided that each such controller supports a sharable IRQ. In this case, the controllers 
that share the same IRQ must be configured to share the same Interrupt Priority Level 
(IPL) value.

Software Device Drivers

Some device drivers (for EISA, MCA, and PCI hardware) can automatically 
detect your hardware configuration and do not require any UnixWare software 
configuration. Other hardware cannot be automatically detected. In this case 
you must either set the IRQ, I/O address range, memory address range, and 
DMA channel to the values UnixWare expects, or you must use the DCU when 
installing UnixWare to assign the hardware parameter values to the appropriate 
device driver (see Step 10 in Chapter 2, "Installing the Personal Edition or 
Application Server").

Tables B-2 and B-3 list the device drivers provided with UnixWare 2.0. In 
these tables, a "-" indicates that UnixWare will automatically detect the 
hardware setting and configure the device driver. A value indicates the 
hardware configuration setting that UnixWare expects. If your hardware is 
configured at a different value, you must use the DCU to assign the correct 
value to the device driver.

The following device drivers are provided with your UnixWare system on the 
Install Diskette.

Table B-2
Device Drivers on the Install Diskette

Device Driver

Vendor

Model

IRQ

I/O Range

Memory 
Address 
Range

DMA

adsc

Adaptec

 AHA-1540B, AHA-
1540CF, AHA-
1542B, AHA-
1542CF, AHA-
1540C, AHA-1542C 
AHA-1640, AHA-
1740, AHA-1740A, 
AHA-1742

11

330-333

dc000-
ddfff

5

athd

multiple

ESDI/IDE Hard disk

14

1f0-1ff

0-0

-

cpqsc

Compaq

Compaq Integrated 
Fast SCSI-2, Compaq 
Fast SCSI-2

-

-

-

-

dpt

DPT

DPT-2012A, DPT-
2012B, DPT-2012B2, 
DPT-2022, DPT-
2122, DPT-2322, 
DPT-2011, DPT-2021

15

170-177

c8000-
c9fff

-

ictha

multiple

MCA Archive, 
Wangtek 31040-
XXX, Wangtek 
30428-XXX, 
Wangtek 30475-
XXX, Wangtek 
30631-XXX

5

300-301

0-0

1

mcesdi

MCA

ESDI Disk Controller

14

3510-
351f

0-0

5

mcst

MCA

ST-506 Disk 
Controller

14

320-32f

0-0

3

The adsc, dpt, and ictha device drivers support both EISA and ISA controllers. The 
values listed above are only required for ISA controllers.

If all of the hardware in your system is listed in Table B-2, then you do not need 
to use any HBA diskettes during installation.

The following device drivers are included on the UnixWare 2.0 Host Bus 
Adapter Drivers diskette.

Table B-3
Device Drivers on UnixWare 2.0 Host Bus Adapter Drivers Diskette

Device Driver

Vendor

Model

IRQ

I/O Range

Memory 
Address 
Range

DMA

adsa

Adaptec

AIC-7770, AHA-
2740, AHA-2742, 
AHA-2740-T, AHA-
2742-T

-

-

-

-

adse

Adaptec

AHA-1740, AHA-
1740A, AHA-1742A

-

-

-

-

adss

Adaptec

AHA-1505, AHA-
1510, AHA-1512, 
AHA-1520, AHA-
1522, AHA-1520A, 
AHA-1522A

-

-

-

-

blc

BusLogic

BT-542B, BT-545S, 
BT-542D, BT-742-
A, BT-747S, BT-
747D, BT-757S, BT-
757D, BT-640A, BT-
646S, BT-646D, BT-
445S, BT-946C

11

330-333

dc000-
ddfff

-

dak

Mylex

Dac960 (2-channel, 
3-channel, and 5-
channel)

-

-

-

-

efp2

Olivetti

EFP2 SCSI

-

-

-

-

fdeb

Future 
Domain

IC-9C50, TMC 
850IBM, TMC 
850/M/MEX/MER

5

0-0

ca00-
cbfff

-

fdsb

Future 
Domain

IBM 16-Bit AT Fast 
SCSI Adapter, IC-
18C30, IC-18C50, 
IC-36C70, MCS 
600/700, TMC 3260, 
1660/1680, 
1650/1670, 
1610MER/MEX/M

11

140-14f

0-0

-

ida

Compaq

IDA, IDA-2, IDAE, 
SMART

-

-

-

-

iiop

Tricord

PowerFrame

-

-

-

-

lmsi

Phillips

LMSI non-SCSI CD-
ROM

5

340-347

0-0

-

mcis

IBM

MCIS-1015, MCIS-
1018 SCSI Host 
Adapter

-

-

-

-

mitsumi

Mitsumi

CRMC-LU005S CD-
ROM

10

360-363

0-0

-

sony

Sony

SONY non-SCSI 
CD-ROM (cd31a, 
cd33a, cd535)

5

320-323

0-0

1

wd7000

Western 
DIgital

wd7000-ASC

-

-

-

-

The blc and fdsb device drivers support both EISA and ISA controllers. The values 
listed above are only required for ISA controllers.

Additional device drivers may also be provided on this diskette. Software 
device drivers are included after the hardware controllers they support are 
successfully tested with UnixWare.

If none of the device drivers on the UnixWare Host Bus Adapter Drivers 
diskette are needed to support the hardware on your system, then you do not 
need to insert the Host Bus Adapter Drivers diskette during installation.

Disk Drives

UnixWare supports disk drives that are larger than 512 MB and defined using 
more than 16 heads. However, the system BIOS for some hardware platforms 
do not support more than 16 heads. If your system BIOS does not support disks 
larger than 512 MB, redefine your disk parameters using 16 or less heads. See 
your hardware documentation for details.

Rewritable Optical Disks

Rewritable optical disks are available in two formats: 512 bytes-per-sector or 
1024 bytes-per-sector. If an optical device is configured on a SCSI bus so that 
it reports itself as a disk, either the VERITAS file system type must be used for 
all the file systems on the disk or the rewritable optical disk must use 512 byte-
per-sector media.

HBA Controllers

A SCSI hardware board tells your computer that you have SCSI device 
attached. This type of board allows you to attach more devices to your 
computer.

If you have a SCSI-based system, you should set the Target Controller (TC, 
also known as SCSI address, SCSI ID, or Device ID) and Logical Unit Number 
(LUN) values as follows:

u	In most cases, the Target Controller should be set to 0 for the primary disk, 
1 for a secondary disk, and 7 for an HBA. However, on computers that use 
the IBM PS/2 SCSI host adapter (mcis device driver), the primary disk has 
the highest Target Controller value. For example, it a system has disks with 
Target Controller values 0, 3, and 6, then the disk with Target Controller 
value 6 is the primary disk.

For a cartridge tape drive, you can use any TC value that is different from 
all the other SCSI devices on your system.

u	The Logical Unit Number (LUN) should be set to 0.

Installing Multiple HBA Controllers

When installing multiple HBA controllers, the boot HBA must be defined to 
both the system BIOS and to UnixWare. Typically, the boot device is the HBA 
device with the lowest BIOS address among all HBA devices that have a disk 
attached. You can set the BIOS address for an ISA or EISA HBA; however, the 
BIOS address for a PCI device is determined by the PCI bus slot where the 
controller is installed.

UnixWare detects the BIOS address for EISA and PCI devices but there is no 
reliable way to determine the BIOS address for ISA devices. Therefore, if your 
system contains an ISA HBA, you must ensure that the correct memory 
address is used for the boot controller. Otherwise, UnixWare will be installed 
on the wrong hard disk.

To specify the BIOS address, also known as the memory address, enter the 
DCU as described in see "Entering the DCU to View /Change Device Driver 
Configuration" on page 18.

SCSI Terminators

Always consult the manufacturers' documentation for the proper termination procedure 
for the HBA and SCSI devices you are using. Excess or improper SCSI termination can 
cause permanent damage to both the SCSI HBA and the devices attached to the HBA, 
or affect signal quality (possibly resulting in SCSI errors).

Always keep the terminating resistor packs (terminators) that came with a 
SCSI device so they can be restored to the device if needed. Terminators from 
different devices may not be interchangeable.

Terminators are polarized. Before removing a terminator from a device, note 
its orientation (the polarity is usually marked with a dot on the terminator). If 
you restore a terminator to a device, make sure the polarity is correct.

Both ends of the SCSI bus must be terminated

u	If you have only one cable attached to your SCSI HBA, the HBA itself 
should be terminated and the last physical device on the SCSI cable should 
be terminated.

u	If you have two cables (one internal and one external) attached to your 
HBA, there should be no termination on the HBA itself and the last 
physical last devices (that is, those on the ends of the cable farthest away 
from the HBA) must be terminated.

Adaptec HBA Controllers

Note the following when using an Adaptec HBA controller:

u	The DMA transfer rate for Adaptec 1540-series SCSI host adapters must 
be set to 5 MB per second. See the documentation supplied with the HBA 
for considerations.

u	When used in enhanced mode, the configuration of the Adaptec 1740-
series is determined automatically. There is no need to install the card at a 
given set of parameters.

u	If you are using an Adaptec 1542 SCSI controller with a hard disk that is 
larger than one gigabyte, do not enable extended translation. If extended 
translation is enabled, your system may not boot.

u	UnixWare will not install on Unisys PW2 computers that use an integrated 
Adaptec SCSI controller with the 6260 chip set. The controller must be 
disabled and another SCSI controller must be used in its place.

DPT HBA Controllers

For all DPT controllers:

u	The I/O ports must be set secondary/disabled.

u	The hard drive, SCSI device, and EISA bus must be enabled.

Run the dptfmt utility program for a DPT 2011 HBA to write reserved disk 
sector information before installing UnixWare. If dptfmt is not run, you may 
experience delays (up to 30 seconds) before you can access disks that are 
attached to the controller. You should also run dptfmt if you upgrade from a 
2011 to a 2012A or 2012B adapter. Please refer to the DPT documentation for 
information about dptfmt.

Western Digital HBA Controllers

For the AT&T WGS SCSI host adapters (manufactured for AT&T by 
Western Digital), the documentation supplied with the host adapter does not 
discuss how to enable or disable the floppy controller on the host adapter. To 
enable the floppy controller, remove the jumpers at locations W6 and W9 on 
the host adapter. To disable the floppy controller, install the jumpers at 
locations W6 and W9.

CD-ROM Controllers

Note the following when configuring CD-ROM controllers:

u	The manufacturer's documentation for the cd33a SONY non-SCSI CD-
ROM may not explain how to set the interrupt. To set the interrupt, set the 
JP4 jumper to 1.

Cartridge Tape Controllers

Note the following when configuring tape controllers:

u	The manufacturer's documentation for Archive SC499-R (and other 
integral Archive) tape drive controllers does not discuss how to set the I/O 
address to 300. To set to 300, combine the jumper settings for addresses 
100 and 200.

u	The manufacturer's documentation for Wangtek 30850 (also PC-36) tape 
drive controllers does not discuss how to set the I/O address to 300. To set 
the I/O address, find the row of ten DIP switches on your tape controller 
board and set switches 1 through 7 to ON and switches 8 through 10 to 
OFF.

u	The Wangtek cartridge tape (5099EK/512EK) does not work with 
controllers which support both high and low density I/O.

Network Interface Cards

UnixWare 2.0 supports auto-detection and auto-configuration of EISA and 
MCA network interface cards that are compliant with the EISA and MCA 
architectures, respectively. Once these cards are configured using the EISA 
Configuration Utility or the MCA Configuration Utility, UnixWare obtains the 
device driver configuration parameters (IRQ, I/O address range, and so on) 
from the computer's non-volatile memory. As a result, you are not prompted 
for any of these parameters when installing the Network Interface Card 
Support (nics) package.

For networking cards that are compliant with the ISA architecture, you must 
enter device driver parameters when installing the nics package. To obtain the 
correct values, boot using the DR DOS diskette provided with UnixWare and 
then use the configuration diskette provided with the networking card. For 
details, see the section "Configuring Your Hardware" in Chapter 1, "Before 
You Begin."

Please note the following when installing network interface cards:

u	Some networking cards support a "wait state" register which should be 
enabled for enhanced networking performance. However, this may cause 
timing problems on the networking card and result in a loss of network 
connectivity. If you are not sure whether your computer hardware supports 
this register, disable the wait state when configuring the networking card.

u	Some networking cards support a "Turbo" mode which should be enabled 
for enhanced networking performance. However, this may cause timing 
problems on the networking card and result in a loss of network 
connectivity. If you are not sure whether your computer hardware supports 
Turbo mode, disable this mode when configuring the networking card.

u	Most network interface cards that are compliant with the ISA architecture 
have their I/O start address preset to 300h. However, this address may be 
used by another hardware device already configured on your system. In 
this case, change the I/O address range on the networking card so that it 
does not conflict with other hardware I/O address ranges.

u	For network interface cards that support shared RAM, do not use memory 
addresses greater than 0xF00000.

u	Most network interface cards that support shared RAM do not work if the 
processor cache for shared memory is enabled. In this case, you should use 
the machine set-up programs provided by your computer manufacturer to 
disable the processor cache for shared memory.



u	No more than one of the following eight network interface cards can be 
installed on your system:

IBM_AutoLANStreamer_MC_32

Olivetti_NCU_9180

IBM_EtherStreamer_MC_32

Olivetti_NCU_9181/S

IBM_LANStreamer_MC_16

Olivetti_NCU_9195

IBM_LANStreamer_MC_32

IBM_Token_Ring_16/4_Adapter_II

If one of these cards is installed on your system, you can not install a 
second networking card from this group, even if the second card is the 
same brand (for example, you can not install two Olivetti_NCU_9181/S).

u	The IBM EtherStreamer MC 32 Network Interface Card does not work 
with the Thinnet (10base2) cable type.

u	The SMC EtherCard Elite32 Ultra and the SMC TokenCard Elite 32 
network interface cards (device driver smc8232) are only supported in the 
non-bus mastering mode. Use the ECU for these cards to disable the Bus-
Mastering switch for these cards.

Changing Network Interface Cards Configuration and
Installing Multiple Network Interface Cards

When installing the Network Interface Card Support (nics) package, you can 
select to install up to four networking cards. After installing the nics package, 
if you want to add a new network interface card, configure the new networking 
card and then use the desktop App Installer or pkgadd command to reinstall 
the nics package.

If you want to remove a networking card after installing the nics package, 
remove the nics package using the App Installer or pkgrm command, shut 
down your system and remove the networking card, and then reboot your 
system and reinstall the nics package using the App Installer or pkgadd 
command.

Network Cable Types

The cable type setting for a network interface card is typically detected by its 
UnixWare device driver. Make sure that the cable type setting for your 
networking card is the cable type you plan on using. The following describes 
the various cable types.

Ethernet

There are three basic types of Ethernet cables:

AUI: A thick cable with a flat multi-pin connector.

BNC: A thin cable with a round twist-on connector.

TP: A flat cable with a telephone-style jack for a connector.

Token-Ring

There are two basic types of Token-Ring cables:

Shielded: A thick cable with a flat multi-pin connector.

Unshielded/TP: A flat cable with a telephone-style jack for a connector.

Video Configuration

The following are some video-related configuration considerations:

u	If you have a color monitor that only displays in black and white after 
UnixWare is installed, you may need to turn on the monitor before you turn 
on the computer to have the colors work properly.

u	If you are using the Compaq QVision video card, you must disable 
interrupts on the board. (Disable the interrupts using the EISA 
configuration utility provided with your computer.)



Additional Hardware Recommendations

The following are generic hardware considerations that may help prevent 
system problems:

u	To install on a system with 8 MB of RAM, either

u	Each device must be SCSI device and all device and all devices must 
be connected to a single HBA, or

u	If you have an ESDI or IDE disk, then you can install from a non-SCSI 
cartridge tape drive.

u	If you disable BIOS on some EISA cards, such as the Adaptec 2742, the 
IRQ and memory address range are disabled. Since the IRQ is disabled, 
you may not be able to access the card. If this occurs, contact your 
hardware vendor to see if you can disable memory without disabling the 
IRQ.

For example, if you have multiple HBA controllers, you may have to 
disable some of these controllers since they are configured with conflicting 
memory address ranges. As a result, UnixWare can not access devices 
connected to such controllers.

u	Some devices and controllers hang when trying to perform synchronous 
negotiation. Typically, you want synchronous negotiation enabled; 
however, try disabling synchronous negotiation if a device or controller 
does not work.

u	By default, the CPU speed on some systems is set to low. To significantly 
increase the performance of your UnixWare system, change the CPU 
speed to high.

u	Some systems with the "Power Saver" option (also referred to as "Power 
Management" or "Green PC") enabled are not supported by UnixWare. If 
this option is enabled and the installation fails at random points after 
setting up the hard disk, disable the Power Saver option.

Also, if installation is successful but the message WARNING: Disk 
Driver Request Timed Out, Resetting Controller is 
displayed, disabling the Power Saver option may correct the problem.

For more information, see the hardware documentation provided with your 
hardware devices and controllers.
