	E	Troubleshooting

This appendix alphabetically lists by major categories problems and solutions 
for UnixWare software and some of the hardware on which it runs.

If a problem occurs, it is important to gather as much data as possible (what is 
your system configuration, has anything changed since you last used the 
system, did you add/remove/remember to power on hardware, and so on). 

When investigating solving problems, you may have to invoke the DCU to 
view/change device driver parameter settings. For information on invoking the 
DCU once your system is installed, see the "Setting Up and Configuring 
Hardware" chapter in the System Owner Handbook.

For additional troubleshooting information, see the "Troubleshooting" 
appendix in the System Owner Handbook.

Boot Problems, Hangs, and Panics

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter during system boot or reboot.

Ctrl-Alt-Del Does Not Reboot UnixWare

Problem. <Ctrl>+<Alt>+<Del> does not reboot UnixWare.

Solution. Some computers require that the <NumLock> key be pressed for 
<Ctrl>+<Alt>+<Del> to reboot the system. This is because the <Del> key is 
shared with the period.

Booting UnixWare Message Is Not Displayed

Problem. When booting your system the Booting UnixWare... 
message is not displayed.

Solution. Check whether the boot disk drive contains a diskette. If so, remove 
the diskette and reboot your system. Otherwise, you may have a system 
hardware problem. See the documentation provided with your hardware. 

Many add-on devices and cards come with configuration utilities. Check all the 
connections and run the configuration utilities.

Panics or Resets While Booting From Install Diskette

Problem. After booting your system with the Install Diskette, the UnixWare 
logo screen is displayed and then the system either displays a panic message or 
resets (the system FIRMWARE messages are displayed again).

Solution. This problem is typically the result of not running a hardware 
configuration program, such as the ECU or the CMOS setup program, before 
installing UnixWare. To fix the problem, run all machine and peripheral 
hardware setup programs provided by your hardware vendor and verify that 
your hardware is correctly configured. In particular, check your memory 
size/control, cache control, bus speed, and video specifications. See your 
hardware documentation for details.

For example, this problem may occur if the correct amount of memory is not 
configured. (To determine the amount of memory on your system, either check 
your hardware documentation or CMOS settings.) For more information, 
see "Configuring Your Hardware" on page 7 in Chapter 1, "Before You 
Begin," and see "Memory Problems" on page 131 in this appendix.

If running hardware setup programs does not solve the problem, then there 
may be a memory problem. You can try to manually set the amount of memory 
on your system as follows

	1.	Reboot your system.

	2.	When the Booting UnixWare... prompt or the Novell logo is 
displayed, press the <SpaceBar>.

The interactive boot session prompt, [boot]#, is displayed. 

	3.	Set the MEMRANGE parameter by typing

MEMRANGE=0-640K:256,1M-nM:16896

GO

Here, n is the amount of available contiguous RAM in megabytes (see 
your hardware documentation for details).

	4.	Follow the instructions in Chapter 2, "Installing the Personal Edition 
and Application Server" until you are prompted to reboot your 
system (Step 26 on page 34).

	5.	When prompted to reboot your system, invoke a UnixWare shell by 
typing

<Alt>-<SysRq>-<H>

The VT0> prompt is displayed.

	6.	Update the /stand/boot file by typing

echo "MEMRANGE=0-640K:256,1M-nM:16896" \

>> /stand/boot

	7.	Type

<Alt>-<SysRq>-<F1>

	8.	Continue the installation by following the instructions in Chapter 2, 
"Installing the Personal Edition and Application Server." See 
Step 26 on page 34.

System Hangs During Installation

Problem. A system with 8 MB of RAM hangs during installation.

Solution. Verify that your system configuration is supported (see "Additional 
Hardware Recommendations" on page 64). If your current system 
configuration is not supported, either add more memory or configure your 
system to support installation with 8 MB of RAM. If your current system 
configuration is supported, then see below.



Problem. Your system hangs during installation. The gauge showing the 
percentage of files installed does not appear or, during a nondestructive 
installation, stops moving.

Solution. This occurs under the following circumstances:

u	If your computer has a system cache, this can cause installation problems. 
Try disabling the cache during installation. If this solves the problem, 
contact Novell and inquire about a possible support update.

u	If your computer is not accessing your diskette drive, check in CMOS that 
your diskette drive type is properly configured. For example, if a 1.44 MB 
diskette drive is configured as a 1.2 MB drive, the diskette drive will not 
be accessed. Also check that your system memory is installed properly.

u	If you suspect a hardware problem (SCSI or non-SCSI CD-ROM or 
cartridge tape) or loose cable, check your system hardware.

If you are sure that your system has none of these problems, contact your 
Novell software reseller and exchange your installation media for new media.

Problem. Your PCI system hangs or panics during installation and the 
UnixWare installation prompts are not displayed.

Solution. UnixWare supports installation on PCI systems that are compliant 
with the PCI 2.0 specification. If your PCI system is not compliant with these 
specifications, then do the following to boot UnixWare:

Automatic detection of PCI peripherals is disabled if you follow this procedure. 
Therefore, it is recommended that you first review the other sections in this appendix 
and attempt to solve the problem before using this procedure.

	1.	Press reset (or power the computer off, then on again if you do not 
have a reset button).

	2.	Wait for the Booting UnixWare... prompt; then press the 
<SpaceBar> key to begin an interactive boot session. 

	3.	When the [boot]# prompt is displayed, type

PCISCAN=NO

go

	4.	Follow the instructions in Chapter 2, "Installing the Personal Edition 
and Application Server" until you are prompted to reboot your 
system (Step 26 on page 34).

	5.	When prompted to reboot your system, invoke a UnixWare shell by 
typing

<Alt>-<SysRq>-<H>

The VT0> prompt is displayed.

	6.	Update the /stand/boot file by typing

echo "PCISCAN=NO" >> /stand/boot

	7.	Type

<Alt>-<SysRq>-<F1>

	8.	Continue the installation by following the instructions in Chapter 2, 
"Installing the Personal Edition and Application Server." See 
Step 26 on page 34.

System Hangs During Reboot

Problem. After the system self-test completes, the Booting 
UnixWare... message does not appear. The system may be hung.

Solution. To correct this, try one of the following solutions:

u	If there is a diskette in diskette drive 1, remove it. Press any key on the 
keyboard and the system should come up properly. If it does not, use 
<Ctrl>+<Alt>+<Del> or press reset to reboot the system.

u	If you recently installed an add-on card, and if your computer worked 
properly before installing the card, remove the new card and see if you can 
reboot the system. If this resolves the problem, there is probably an IRQ 
or address conflict. Reconfigure the card with a non-conflicting IRQ or 
address and then reinstall the card. (See your hardware documentation for 
details.)

u	If your computer uses system shadow RAM or video shadow RAM, access 
your CMOS configuration and turn off the shadow function(s). While use 
of shadow memory improves performance for DOS systems, it has no 
effect on the performance of UnixWare.

u	If your computer is not accessing your diskette drive, check in CMOS that 
your diskette drive type is properly configured. For example, if a 1.44 MB 
diskette drive is configured as a 1.2 MB drive, the diskette drive will not 
be accessed. Also check that your system memory is installed properly.

u	Computers with a 80287 co-processor may hang on soft reboot. In this 
case, the last line displayed on your monitor is probably: The system 
is coming up. Please wait.

To resolve the problem, perform a hard reboot (turn the computer power 
off, then on). The system should then boot up properly. Alternately, 
remove the 80287 co-processor from your computer.

u	If your computer has BIOS caching enabled, disable BIOS caching.

u	If your system has an IDE disk drive that is larger than 512 MB, and your 
disk parameter heads are defined as greater than 16, verify that your 
system BIOS supports disk drive parameters with more than 16 heads. If 
your system BIOS does not support large disk drives, redefine your disk 
drive parameters using 16 or less heads. See your hardware documentation 
for details.

u	If your computer has a hard disk drive greater than one gigabyte and you 
have an Adaptec 1542 SCSI controller with extended translation enabled, 
disable the extended translation.

u	If your computer already had an operating system (for example, OS/2) 
before installing UnixWare, it may have a "boot code" on the hard disk 
which is incompatible with UnixWare. If this is the case, UnixWare will 
not boot and you may receive a message such as Cannot Load User 
Driver or No Active Partition Found.

To resolve this problem, see the section "System Has Incompatible Boot 
Code" below.

System Has Incompatible Boot Code

Problem.You did not overwrite the boot code when installing UnixWare and 
the boot code from your previous system will not boot UnixWare.

Solution. If you previously booted UnixWare and created emergency recovery 
diskettes, use those diskettes to access your system and to correct the problem. 
For details, see the chapter "Recovering Your System" in the System Owner 
Handbook.

Otherwise, do the following:

	1.	Insert the Install Diskette into the boot drive (diskette drive 1).

	2.	Reboot your system.

	3.	Respond to the prompts as if you are performing a nondestructive 
installation until you reach the "Install Menu."

	4.	Press <F9>. If prompted, enter the serial number provided on the 
media used to install UnixWare. A UnixWare prompt is displayed.

	5.	Type

/usr/sbin/fdisk

If the ERROR: Default device (/dev/rdsk/c0b0t0d0s0) 
cannot be opened message is displayed, then you need to enter

/usr/sbin/fdisk /dev/rdsk/device-name

To determine the device-name, type

ls /dev/rdsk/c0*s0

The device-name is first file name listed.

	6.	Select option 0 to overwrite the boot code.

	7.	Select option 4 to exit the fdisk utility. The UnixWare command-line 
prompt is displayed.

	8.	Return to the "Install Menu." Type

exit

	9.	Select Cancel Installation and Shutdown System.

	10.	When prompted, reboot your system.

System Hangs or Panics During Reboots

Problem. The kernel builds successfully but the system does not boot or the 
system panics.

A "system panic" may occur when there is a fatal error that the system cannot 
correct-this is most often caused by an improperly configured device or 
device driver. In a panic situation, the system prints a panic message. If the 
Kernel Debugger (kdb) package is installed, control transfers to the kernel 
debugger program.

Solution. If you have just installed new hardware, there may be an address or 
interrupt conflict with other hardware on the system. Power down the computer 
and verify that all controllers are properly seated and jumpered. Use vendor-
supplied software to diagnose hardware conflicts and change address or 
interrupt values as needed.

u	If the problem is not hardware-based and you previously had UnixWare 
installed on your system, you can restore the old UnixWare system as 
follows:

	1.	Press reset (or power the computer off, then on again if you have no 
reset button).

	2.	Wait for the Booting UnixWare... prompt; then press the 
<SpaceBar> key to begin an interactive boot session. 

	3.	When the [boot]# prompt is displayed, type

KERNEL=unix.old

go

u	If the problem is not hardware-based but you think you can correct it by 
accessing your UnixWare file systems, do the following:

The following procedures should only be done by users with experience modifying 
file systems.

	1.	If you previously created emergency recovery diskettes, follow the 
instructions in the "Recovering Your System" chapter of the System 
Owner Handbook. Otherwise go to Step 2.

	2.	If you did not create emergency recovery diskettes, use the Install diskette 
to repair your system. See the section "Manually Repairing a System from 
the Boot Diskette" in the chapter "Booting and System States" in the part 
"System Setup and Configuration" of the System Administration guide.

System Hangs Repeatedly

Problem. Some computers that have cache memory hang repeatedly and at 
seemingly random points. You may also see erratic performance in the form of 
segmentation faults or core dumps. This is sometimes due to the cache 
controller not properly detecting that Direct Memory Access (DMA) has 
occurred to the system memory in a location that is currently cached.

Solution. Disable the cache memory. (Refer to your computer manufacturer's 
documentation for information about how to disable the cache.) If disabling the 
cache solves the problem, you may want to contact your hardware vendor to 
see whether there is an upgrade or a fix for the problem. If no upgrade or fix is 
available, keep the cache disabled to prevent reoccurrences of the problem.

Resource Manager Database Corrupted

Problem. The system will not boot and an error message indicates that the 
resource manager database, /stand/resmgr, is either corrupted or missing.

Solution. Reboot UnixWare. Press <SpaceBar> when the Booting 
UnixWare... prompt is displayed. The interactive boot session prompt, 
[boot]#, is then displayed. Type

RESMGR=resmgr.sav

GO

This loads a backup copy of the resource manager database. You system should 
then reboot.

When the system comes up you may want to invoke the DCU to verify that all device 
driver parameters are set correctly. A corrupted or missing resource manager database 
is normally the result of improper changes made when adding/modifying hardware 
parameters.

Power Saver Option Enabled

Problem. Installation fails at random points after the hard disk is set up (or the 
message WARNING: Disk Driver Request Timed Out, 
Resetting Controller is displayed after a successful installation) on 
systems with the "Power Saver" option (also referred to as "Power 
Management" or "Green PC") enabled.

Solution. Turn off the "green/energy star" power saving time outs in the 
system BIOS. (Refer to the hardware manual for details.)

Controller Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter with a controller.

I/O Address, Memory Address, or Interrupt Conflicts

Problem. If you have multiple controllers or adapters on your computer, it is 
possible that two or more hardware cards are configured with conflicting I/O 
or RAM addresses, or with conflicting interrupt vectors. This may cause a 
controller or adapter failure, unpredictable results, or a boot failure.

Solution. Review Appendix B, "Hardware Configuration Notes," and verify 
that all hardware cards are configured correctly with nonconflicting IRQ and 
addresses.

Hardware vendors often supply diagnostic software to determine which I/O 
addresses, RAM addresses, and interrupt vectors are in use. Run the vendor 
diagnostics to make this determination and reconfigure conflicting hardware as 
necessary.

If all else fails, check whether any interrupts occupy one of the controller 
locations in the processor "set up" configuration. For example, this problem 
may occur if an adapter has interrupt 12 and a PS/2 mouse is used. In this case, 
you should either change the interrupt for the adapter or disable the mouse.

Incorrect IRQ Value

Problem. The IRQ for a device driver was changed from 9 to 2 and then some 
devices do not function correctly (for example, modems).

Solution. Use the DCU to change the IRQ value back to 9. In particular, when 
the jumper is set to 2 on an AT bus system, the IRQ should be set to 9. If the 
IRQ value is 9, do not change it. If the IRQ value is 2, change it to 9.

Installation Fails on Computer Using Ultrastor Controller

Problem. This problem can occur when the parameters for the Ultrastor disk 
controller are set to 63 sectors/track mapping and track mapping is ON. 
Installation fails with this combination.

Solution. Set values to no for spare/trk, sect map, track map, and 1024 trunc. 
The Ultrastor manual provides tables of parameter values. Use the parameters 
for "UNIX GROUP" (1).

Destructive Installation Problems

The following items explain problems you may encounter if you want to 
restore user data from a UnixWare 1.1 system on your UnixWare 2.0 system 
after performing a destructive installation.

Need to Restore UnixWare 1.1 Data

Problem. You performed a destructive installation and you now want to 
restore data from a UnixWare 1.1 backup.

Solution. You must be very careful when restoring data from a UnixWare 1.1 
backup. If you replace UnixWare 2.0 desktop files with UnixWare 1.1 files, 
your desktop may become dysfunctional. Therefore, only restore selective files 
(user data files, application data files, and so on). Do not restore system and 
desktop files provided with UnixWare 1.1.

If you need to restore an entire system worth of data, do the following:

	1.	If possible, perform a nondestructive installation of your UnixWare 
1.1 system. If you have already performed a destructive installation, 
go to Step 2.

	2.	Reinstall your system applications and perform first-time set up tasks 
to configure your system.

Perform the tasks in Chapter 3, "Configuring Your System." Do not create 
the emergency recovery tapes and system backup until after you restore 
the user accounts.

	3.	For each user on your system, reinstall the user account by following 
the procedure in the next section, "Need to Restore UnixWare 1.1 User 
Account ."

	4.	Create new UnixWare 2.0 emergency recovery tapes and a full system 
backup. For details, see the System Owner Handbook.

Need to Restore UnixWare 1.1 User Account

Problem. You performed a destructive installation and now need to restore a 
UnixWare 1.1 user,

Solution. If the user has already created data files using their UnixWare 2.0 
account, ask the user to identify which files they want restored from their 
UnixWare 1.1 account. Then restore only those files.

If the user has not created data files using their UnixWare 2.0 account, do the 
following:

	1.	If you have not already created an account for the user, create the 
account. Use either of the following two methods:

u	Create the account using the User Setup application. For details, see 
the System Owner Handbook.

u	As root or system owner, from the UnixWare command-line type

/usr/X/adm/dtadduser login-id

	2.	Log in as the owner of the account that you are restoring.

	3.	If you plan to use the desktop to restore the user data, click on the 
Backup-Restore icon in the Admin Tools folder.

	4.	Click on the Terminal icon in the Applications window.



	5.	Create a list of the user's desktop files. To do so, in the Terminal 
window type

find . -print | grep -v .Xauthority | \ 

/usr/bin/sed "1 d" > /tmp/file-name

You can select any name you like for file-name.

	6.	Remove all files from the user desktop. To do so, type

for i in `cat /tmp/file-name`

do

rm -rf

done

	7.	Restore the user home directory from the UnixWare 1.1 backup. For 
details, see the System Owner Handbook.

For example, you can use the Backup-Restore icon if you clicked on it in 
Step 3 above. Or you can invoke this application by typing 

/usr/X/MediaMgr

	8.	Log off the system.

The next time the user logs in to the system, their account will 
automatically be upgraded to a UnixWare 2.0 account.

Disk Drive Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter with your disk drive.

Insufficient Space on Hard Disk

Problem. Message indicates your computer does not have the required 
minimum 80 MB primary hard disk and installation cannot continue.

Solution. There are several circumstances where a message is displayed 
indicating that you do not have an 80 MB hard disk

u	When your disk partition does not include an active UNIX system partition 
of at least 80 MB and you select Accept Settings and Install Now from the 
"Install Menu," a warning message is displayed. To correct the problem, 
select View or Change Disk Configuration from the "Install Menu."

u	When an HBA diskette is needed but has not been installed, a message is 
displayed indicating that an 80 MB hard disk is required and installation 
cannot continue. To correct the problem, repeat the installation and insert 
an HBA diskette when prompted. 

u	When your SCSI host bus adapter or SCSI disk is configured improperly, 
an error message is displayed. Check your hardware configuration.

u	When your interrupt is not correctly set on the SCSI controller, an error 
message is displayed. For example, the Compaq FAST SCSI III embedded 
controller must have the interrupt set to 15. On some systems the interrupt 
is set to 11 and appears to function correctly until you try to install an 
operating system. In this case, you need to use the EISA configuration 
utility provided with the controller to change the interrupt.

Setting up Hard Disk Problems

Problem. An error message indicates that setting up your hard disk failed.

Solution. Typically, performing a surface analysis is recommended in order to 
avoid data corruption. However, if installation then fails, perform a destructive 
installation and disable surface analysis. For details on disabling surface 
analysis, see "Performing Special Disk Operations" on page 76 in Appendix 
C, "Information About Partitions and File Systems."

Display Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter with your monitor display.

Display Not Readable During Installation

Problem. When booting from the Install Diskette, the installation screens are 
garbled and cannot be read.

Solution. UnixWare typically detects the correct video hardware. However, on 
occasion incorrect information is provided to UnixWare by the video 
hardware. Do the following to correct the problem

	1.	Reboot your system.

	2.	When the Booting UnixWare... prompt or the Novell logo is 
displayed, press the <SpaceBar>.

The interactive boot session prompt, [boot]#, is displayed. 

	3.	Set your video display

u	If you have a color monitor, type

resmgr:kd:KDMONITOR=COLOR

GO

u	If you do not have a color monitor, type

resmgr:kd:KDMONITOR=MONO

GO

The installation then continues with your video display correctly set.

Improper Display in Enhanced Video Modes

Problem. You may observe the following kinds of problems with the 
resolution of your monitor: windows seem the wrong size, fonts appear to be 
the wrong point size, the smoothness of Adobe Type Manager fonts is not 
adequate, and so on. These problems may be caused by improper settings for 
your video card or monitor.

Solution. The UnixWare Desktop assumes you use the standard VGA mode 
(widely supported by a variety of video card manufacturers), with a resolution 
of 640x480. It also assumes that you have a standard 9.75 x 7.32 size monitor. 
Any higher resolution needs special video drivers (some of these special 
drivers are provided with the base system). Use Display Setup to change your 
video configuration. (See the System Owner Handbook for details.)

Blank Display

Problem. The monitor screen is blank-no display.

Solution. Some video cards and monitors are not 100% compatible with each 
other. This is a hardware problem and occurs regardless of the operating 
system you are using. Try waiting to power up the monitor until after powering 
up the computer.

Problem. The monitor screen is blank and the system hangs during 
installation.

Solution. On AT&T 386/25 machines, the base setting in BIOS must be 640 
KB. Otherwise, the monitor screen will blank out and your system will hang 
when the boot diskette is inserted and running.

EGA Displays

Problem. EGA class of video cards do not function correctly. The screen may 
be unreadable.

Solution. The default display is standard VGA. If you have EGA, do the 
following:

	1.	Press <Alt>+<SysRq> <P>

	2.	Log in as root.

	3.	Type

LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/X/bin

export LD_LIBRARY_PATH

/usr/X/lib/display/setvideomode

	4.	When prompted for vendor, select Miscellaneous VGA.

	5.	When prompted for the video mode, select EGA.

Memory Conflicts With Trident 8900 Video Cards Fast Address Decode

Problem. The Trident 8900 supports a fast address decode mode that may 
cause kernel memory address conflicts and boot problems.

Solution. Change the jumper pins to configure the Trident 8900 to use slow 
address coding. For details see the documentation provided with this video 
card.

Internal Errors

The following item explains what to do if you encounter a system error.

Internal Error in System Installation. Cannot continue.

Problem. This message indicates a fatal and probably unrecoverable error.

Solution. Perform a destructive installation from the beginning to clear the 
problem.

Kernel Build

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter when the UnixWare kernel is built.

Kernel Build Fails

Problem. Kernel build fails during installation.

Solution. If a kernel build fails during installation, review the error messages 
in the /tmp/kernel.build error file for details.

u	If a failure occurs while rebuilding the UnixWare kernel, this may be the 
result of a corrupted kernel file or idbuild tool caused by bad media or 
a malfunctioning device. The installation halts at this point.

Determine if your hardware (CD-ROM, cartridge tape, diskette, or 
network) is working properly. To do so, run any hardware and vendor 
diagnostic utilities or contact your network administrator. If necessary, 
replace the installation media and restart the installation.

u	If the build fails during an upgrade installation, an attempt may have been 
made to build with an outdated package. Identify the package and install 
the most recent version. Then rebuild the kernel.

u	If the build fails for an application, the reason may be that the application 
failed to install properly.

 Rebuild the kernel by typing

/etc/conf/bin/idbuild -B

The -B option allows the kernel to be built immediately without having to 
reboot.

Media Errors

The following item explains what to do if a media error is displayed or if the 
media you want to install UnixWare from is not listed.

Error Reading Media

Problem. A "fatal" error message indicates that there was a problem reading 
your installation or HBA diskette media.

Solution. Such error messages can either be a hardware problem, a problem 
with your network (if you are performing a network installation), or a problem 
with your media. Do the following:

	1.	If you are performing a network installation, contact your network 
administrator to verify that there is not a problem with the Install 
Server or network. If there is a problem with either the Install Server 
or your network, you may have to perform the installation again.

	2.	If the problem was not resolved in Step 1, shut down your system and 
check for hardware problems. Check all connections and run the 
diagnostic utilities provided with your system hardware.

	3.	If the problem was not resolved in Step 1 or Step 2, contact your 
Novell reseller to obtain replacement media. (If you used an HBA 
diskette from a third-party vendor, contact that vendor for a 
replacement diskette.)

Installation Devices Not Listed

Problem. If you are installing from cartridge tape or CD-ROM and the 
medium from which you want to install is not listed on the "Selection 
Installation Method" screen, then UnixWare does not see the device.

Solution. If UnixWare cannot see your install device, check the following:

u	Make sure the hardware in your system is supported: Host Bus Adapters, 
CD-ROM readers, and so on.

u	Make sure the device is powered on at boot time.

u	Check the cabling to the device.

u	Make sure your controller and devices are set up properly. 

u	If you are using a SCSI device, ensure that SCSI termination rules are 
followed. For more information, check the documentation provided with 
your SCSI devices and see the section "SCSI Termination" in Appendix B, 
"Hardware Configuration Notes."

u	Repeat the installation and enter the DCU. Check whether the device 
driver for this device has been configured.

u	Run diagnostic software on that device to make sure it is not faulty.

u	If necessary, swap that install device with another make or model.

Memory Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the system memory 
problems you may encounter.

Add-on Card(s) Do Not Work on Computer with Greater than 16 MB RAM

Problem. Many add-on cards do not work at memory addresses f00000 and 
above if the computer has more than 16 MB of memory.

Solution. Set the add-on card to use memory addresses lower than f00000.

ECC or Parity Errors

Problem. Bad memory or fatal memory parity errors.

Solution. Check if a diagnostic disk or some other system disk is available that 
will mask the bad memory module.

Incorrect Amount of RAM Memory Detected

Problem. On EISA systems, during installation an error message indicates that 
there is insufficient memory to load UnixWare.

Solution. Run the ECU provided by your hardware vendor and set the correct 
amount of memory.

Problem. On EISA systems with 16 MB or less of RAM, the incorrect amount 
of RAM may be detected.

Solution. Run the ECU provided by your hardware vendor and set the correct 
amount of memory. If the correct amount of memory is set and you still can not 
reboot your system, specify in the ECU that your system has more than 16 MB 
of RAM. Although you are providing an incorrect value to the ECU, this 
should allow you to boot UnixWare.

Problem. On computers using more than 16 MB RAM, the system might not 
detect RAM above 16 MB.

Solution. Perform the following procedure.

	1.	Run memsize from the root ID to determine the amount of RAM 
your computer detects. If less memory is detected than is actually 
present, go to Step 2.

	2.	Create a /stand/boot file with the following entry:

MEMRANGE=0-640K:256,1M-16M:512,16M- nn M:8704

where nn equals the actual amount of RAM memory, in megabytes, on 
your computer. For further details, see boot(4).

Type this carefully. An error in the /stand/boot file can prevent your system from 
booting.

Most computers reserve as much as 512 KB of memory that cannot be accessed by 
an operating system. The /stand/boot file cannot reclaim such memory.

Shadow Memory

Problem. Shadow memory on a Compaq system is mapped above 16 MB and 
is not disabled before installing the OS Multiprocessor Support package. Then 
your system does not boot.

	Solution. You must either disable shadow memory (see the documentation 
that came with your system) or do the following:

	1.	Press reset (or power the computer off, then on again if you do not 
have a reset button).

	2.	Wait for the Booting UnixWare... prompt; then press the 
<SpaceBar> key to begin an interactive boot session. 

	3.	When the [boot]# prompt is displayed, type

KERNEL=unix.old

go

	4.	Limit your computer's memory to 16 MB by placing the following line 
in /stand/boot:

MEMRANGE=0-640K:256,1M-16M:512

	5.	Reboot your system.

Mouse Problems

The following item explains how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter configuring a mouse for your system.



Mouse Does Not Work

Problem. Your mouse does not work.

Solution. First check that your mouse is properly installed in your system. If it 
is:

u	For PS/2 and serial mouse on a EISA system, check the ECU to verify that 
your mouse is enabled and that other hardware controllers are not 
configured with conflicting hardware parameter settings (IRQ, memory 
address range, and so). See your hardware documentation for details on 
using the ECU.

u	On an ISA system, check your BIOS setup.

Multiprocessor Problems

The following item explains how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter on a multiprocessor system.

Receive Unknown Traps or Spurious Interrupts

Problem. A defective Interrupt Distribution Board causes an unknown trap or 
an interrupt in the system.

Solution. Contact your hardware vendor for a replacement board or, if 
possible, rejumper your system in a different interrupt mode that bypasses the 
Interrupt Distribution Board.

Network Installation Problems

Network Install Diskette Not Detected

Problem. An error message is displayed indicating that the Network 
Installation Utilities diskette is not inserted.

Solution. A Network Installation Utilities diskette is provided with UnixWare. 
Check whether you inserted this diskette into your 3.5-inch diskette drive. 
Then press <Enter>. (If this is not the problem and your boot drive is a 5.25-
inch diskette drive, check the CMOS hardware settings for your 3.5-inch 
diskette drive.)

Cannot Configure Network Interface Card

Problem. When prompted to provide your network interface card 
configuration data, the value for one or more of your card's hardware 
parameter settings is not listed (for example, the IRQ, I/O address range, 
memory address range, and/or DMA channel).

Solution. Only hardware parameter values that are not already in use are listed. 
If the value for a hardware parameter is not listed, then another hardware 
controller is configured to use the same hardware setting. There are several 
ways to fix this problem:

	1.	Repeat the installation and install from cartridge tape or CD-ROM 
diskette.

	2.	Repeat the installation and use the DCU to disable hardware controllers 
that are not needed during installation (for example, a cartridge tape drive).

	3.	Record the choices that are listed and then shut down your system. 
Reconfigure your networking card to use one of values you recorded and 
then repeat the installation.

Error When Configuring Network

Problem. When performing a network installation, an error message is 
displayed following the Configuring Network message.

Solution. The last line of the error message explains the cause of the problem:

u	If the message indicates a problem with your networking card selection, 
then either the wrong networking card or the wrong networking 
parameters were selected. Press <Enter> to restart installation from the 
beginning.

u	If the message indicates a problem contacting an Install Server, first check 
that your networking cable is securely attached to your system.

u	If the cable is securely attached to your system, ask your network 
administrator to check whether your network is up and whether an 
Install Server is enabled for network installation. (For details, see the 
chapter "Installing Add-on Software" in the System Administration 
guide.) Then select whether to return to the previous menu or to cancel 
the installation.

u	If the cable is not securely attached to your system, attach the cable. 
Then select whether to return to the previous menu or to cancel the 
installation.

u	For any other message, check that the networking cable is securely 
attached to your system and confirm with your network administrator that 
your network is up and an Install Server is enabled for network 
installation.

System Hangs When Loading Drivers or Installing Software

Problem. When performing a network installation, the Loading 
Software Drivers message is displayed for several minutes or the 
installation gauge does not move for several minutes.

Solution. Check whether your networking cable is securely attached to your 
system.

u	If the cable is securely attached to your system, ask your network 
administrator to check whether your network is up and whether an Install 
Server is enabled for network installation. (For details, see the section 
"Setting Up and Administering an Install Server" in the chapter "Installing 
Add-on Software" of the part "System Setup and Configuration" of the 
book System Administration). Then press <Enter> to restart installation 
from the beginning.

u	If the cable is not securely attached to your system, attach the cable. Then 
press <Enter> to restart installation from the beginning.

Network Interface Card Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter with a network interface card.

For network interface card problems, also see the "Controller Problems" section earlier 
in this appendix and the section "Network Interface Cards" in Appendix B, "Hardware 
Configuration Notes."

Networking Interface Card is Not Found During Installation

Problem. The network interface card is not detected during installation of the 
nics package.

Solution. If this problem occurs with networking cards compliant with the ISA 
architecture, then there is typically a mismatch between the networking 
parameters entered when installing the nics package and actual settings on the 
networking card (IRQ, I/O address, memory address, and so on). 

To correct the problem, either reinstall the nics package with the correct 
parameter settings or change the settings on the networking card. To do so, 
reboot your system using DR DOS boot floppy. Then use the networking card 
configuration diskette provided by the networking card vendor to change the 
hardware settings on the card. For further details, see the section "Configuring 
Your Hardware" in Chapter 1, "Before You Begin."

This problem rarely occurs for an EISA networking card on computers compliant with 
the EISA architecture, or for an MCA networking card on computers compliant with the 
MCA architecture. If it does, then your system may not have enough memory.

Network Interface Card Did Not Load

Problem. Configuration of a network interface card appears to succeed when 
installing the nics package, but when the system reboots UnixWare cannot 
detect the card and/or the device driver cannot be loaded. This may happen if 
device driver parameter settings were modified using the DCU.

Solution. Use the DCU to verify that the device driver parameter settings are 
correctly set and that the device driver parameter settings for the networking 
card do not conflict with any other hardware on your system.

If this does not solve the problem, obtain the correct networking parameter 
settings by following the procedure described above in "Networking Interface 
Card is Not Found During Installation." Then use the DCU to enter the correct 
values.

Problem. When installing the nics package, a networking card will not load.

Solution. The device drivers for some network interface cards require 
contiguous memory in order to successfully load. If such memory is not 
available, installation of the device driver fails.

If this problem occurs when installing the Personal Edition or Application 
Server, you are prompted to reboot your system. When the system reboots, the 
device driver is loaded and installation continues.

If this problem occurs when installing the nics package using the desktop or 
pkgadd, then reboot the system. This frees enough space to install the device 
driver.

Network Interface Card Not Found After Installing nics Package

See the previous section, "Network Interface Card Did Not Load."

Networking Fails After Adding New Network Interface Card

Problem. You installed an additional network interface card, rebooted the 
system, and networking is disabled.

Solution. No more than one of the following eight network interface cards can 
be installed on your system:

IBM_AutoLANStreamer_MC_32

Olivetti_NCU_9180

IBM_EtherStreamer_MC_32

Olivetti_NCU_9181/S

IBM_LANStreamer_MC_16

Olivetti_NCU_9195

IBM_LANStreamer_MC_32

IBM_Token_Ring_16/4_Adapter_II

If you installed a second network interface card from this group, then shut 
down your system and remove the card.

Wrong Connector Type

Problem. Software is correctly set but your system is not connected to the 
network.

Solution. This is typically caused by the wrong connector type setting for the 
network interface card. Refer to the section "Network Interface Cards" in 
Appendix B, "Hardware Configuration Notes," for a description of connector 
types.

To correct the connector type, either reinstall the nics package with the correct 
parameter settings or change the settings on the networking card. To do so, 
reboot your system using DR DOS boot floppy. Then use the networking card 
configuration diskette provided by the networking card vendor to change the 
hardware settings on the card. For more information, see "Running Hardware 
Configuration Programs" on page 8 in Chapter 1, "Before You Begin."

Nondestructive Installation Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter if you perform a nondestructive installation.

No Option Offered for Performing Nondestructive Installation

Problem. Your system contains a version of UnixWare but you are not given 
an opportunity to perform a nondestructive installation.

Solution. To perform a nondestructive installation

u	The active partition must contain the version of UnixWare that you are 
replacing.

u	You must be replacing a version of UnixWare that can be upgraded or 
UnixWare 2.0 (see "Choosing Between Destructive and Nondestructive 
Installation" on page 3 in Chapter 1, "Before You Begin").

u	The partition containing UnixWare must be at least 80 MB.

u	Your system must have at least at least 20 MB free of space in the / file 
system, 45 MB in the /usr file system, and 5 MB in the /var file system. 
(Otherwise, the installation software will not allow you to install 
UnixWare 2.0.)

If you are not prompted to perform a nondestructive installation, then

	1.	Follow the instructions in the section "Changing Your Active Partition" on 
page 5 in Chapter 1, "Before You Begin," to set your active partition.

	2.	Repeat the installation.

If you are still not prompted to perform a nondestructive installation, then you 
must perform a destructive installation or you must cancel the installation.

Installation Does Not Complete

Problem. When performing a nondestructive installation, the installation does 
not complete (for example, because of a power outage).

Solution. If the problem occurs before selection Accept All Settings and Install 
Now from the "Install Menu," you can either repeat the installation or reboot 
your system.

If the problem occurred later in the installation process but before you were 
prompted to reboot your system, and if you created emergency recovery 
diskettes for your previous system, you may be able to restore your previous 
system and try again.

Otherwise, you need to perform a destructive installation and then restore 
system and user data from backup tapes.

If you are upgrading from UnixWare 1.1, then you must follow the procedures in the 
"Destructive Installation Problems" section on page 123.

System Will Not Accept User Number During Nondestructive Installation

Problem. During a nondestructive installation, the system does not accept the 
user ID number you input.

Solution. Make sure the number you are using is not already used. Try the next 
user ID (for example, try 102 rather than 101).

Cannot Use Old Logins After Nondestructive Installation

Problem. When performing an overlay installation, you lost your /etc/passwd 
or /etc/shadow files. Now you cannot log in using the old logins.

Solution. Log in as root and delete the problem logins from both /etc/shadow 
and /etc/passwd. Then add the logins again using the desktop or 
useradd(1M) and creatiadb(1M).



Networking Does Not Work Following Overlay of nsu

Problem. When overlaying the nsu package you chose not to automatically 
merge the volatile nsu files. After the overlay completes, networking does not 
work.

Solution. Either copy /var/sadm/upgrade/svr4.2/etc/netconfig to /etc/netconfig 
or overlay the inet package.

Networking Does Not Work following Overlay of nics

Problem. After overlaying the Network Interface Card Support (nics) in order 
to remove one of the networking cards from the system, networking does not 
work.

Solution. Issue the following commands:

/usr/sbin/netinfo -r -d device

/etc/confnet.d/inet/configure -i

where device is the node in /dev that was just removed. (For example, if you 
removed the IMX586 driver, device is imx586_0.)

Can Only Access One of Several SCSI Cards After Nondestructive Installation

Problem. You have multiple SCSI adapter cards in your system of the same 
type and, after you perform a nondestructive installation, you can only access 
one of them.

Solution. Run /sbin/pdiadd to add the other cards to the system.

Need to Restore Device Driver From Previous System

Problem. After a nondestructive installation, a hardware controller is no 
longer configured on your system.

Solution. This is probably caused by not merging device drivers during 
UnixWare installation. The preferred solution is to reinstall the device driver. 
However, if you do not have an HBA containing the device driver, do the 
following:

You should restore device drivers one at a time. If your system cannot boot after 
restoring a device driver, then that device driver's settings conflict with other hardware 
on your system. In this case, either reconfigure your hardware or reboot using unix.old.

	1.	Type

cd /etc/inst/save.user/etc/conf

	2.	Type

find . -print -name driver | cpio -pd /etc/conf

Here, driver is the name of the device driver that you are restoring.

	3.	Rebuild your kernel. Type

/etc/conf/bin/idbuild -B

Need to Restore Data From UnixWare 1.1 Backup

Problem. You need to restore a user account or user data from a UnixWare 1.1 
back up.

Solution. See the section "Destructive Installation Problems" on page 123 for 
details.

Overlay Installation Problems

If you encounter problems when performing an overlay installation, see the 
section "Nondestructive Installation Problems" earlier in this appendix.

Rewritable Optical Media Problems

The following items explain how to solve a problem you may encounter when 
using rewritable optical media.



Cannot Read Optical Media

Problem. Cannot read 1024 byte-per-sector rewritable optical media.

Solution. Optical read/write disks are commonly available in two formats: 
512-bytes-per-sector or 1024-bytes-per-sector. If an optical device is 
configured on a SCSI bus so that it reports itself as a disk, then either the 
VERITAS file system type must be used for all file systems on the disk or the 
optical disk must use 512 bytes-per-sector.

Tape or Tape Drive Problems

The following items explain how to solve some of the problems you may 
encounter when using a tape drive.

Not Offered Tape as Media Choice for the PE/AS

Problem. This may occur because UnixWare is unable to detect the presence 
of the tape controller.

Solution. Cancel the installation and then turn off the computer and remove the 
tape controller. Verify that the controller is correctly configured (see Appendix 
B, "Hardware Configuration Notes"). Also, verify that no other controllers are 
jumpered to the same interrupt, I/O address range, or controller memory 
address range. 

For example, a bus mouse controller card must not use IRQ 5 if you are also 
using an integral cartridge tape drive because the tape controller must use IRQ 
5. Ethernet boards, some of which come factory-configured to use I/O address 
300, must be reconfigured to use a different address since the tape drive 
controller requires this address.

If your tape drive is attached to a SCSI controller, make sure that no other 
controller cards are jumpered so that they conflict with the SCSI host adapter. 
Also make sure that the SCSI bus is properly terminated and tape drive has a 
valid SCSI target ID.

After making whatever hardware changes are necessary, restart installation.

Upgrade Installation Problems

If you encounter problems when performing an upgrade installation, see the 
section "Nondestructive Installation Problems" earlier in this appendix.
