Connecting UnixWare 2.0 to NetWare

By Greg Smith (gsmith@westnet.com)

URL http://www.westnet.com/~gsmith


One of the major attractions of Novell's UnixWare (UW) product is its
built-in support for NetWare (NW) connectivity. The potential for
transparent access between these two types of systems had lured many
people familiar with one type of system (either Unix or NetWare) to try
out UnixWare and become familiar with the other. Some of the
configuration and troubleshooting procedures for getting these
connections working are very complicated, however, and the documentation
is less then complete in parts. Having spent a considerable amount of
time myself producing a working, integrated NW/UW system, I can tell you
that knowing what a working system is supposed to do is quite useful in
figuring out what is wrong with yours. This article attempts to mix
information about how a working system acts with some troubleshooting
advice for when yours doesn't. Note that I only deal with running these
systems with an IPX network, since that's what I'm using, and that's
what the majority of NW sites have; if you have a TCP/IP network
running, the configuration details are somewhat different.

It's easy to tell if you have a correctly configured UW system connected
to a Novell NW Network.  Start up UW and, from the desktop, open the NW
folder that appears in the main desktop window. It will show all the NW
servers on your network. Double-click on one of them, and a login box
will appear to attach you to that server. After logging in, a listing of
all the disk volumes on that NW server will appear. Double-clicking on
one of these will show all the files on that volume, and you'll be able
to traverse the directory tree.

Novell's UW documentation leads you to believe that loading the NW Unix
Client (NUC) NLM on your NW server is the first thing you do after
installing UW to fix all your problems. Loading NUC is actually close to
the last thing to worry about; most of the functions involving NW do not
require it.  In fact, there is very little configuration that needs to
be done to get the basic connections working; if things don't work as
expected, it's probably not because you haven't loaded some of the high
level software like NUC, it's probably something more mundane like a
network card configuration problem. Let's take apart the previous
paragraph step-by-step and see what's really involved in each one of
them to get your system working.

UnixWare NetWare folder shows all the NetWare servers

UW recognizes the NW servers on the network it is connected to by
looking for Service Advertising Protocol (SAP) packets from the NW
server on that network. In order for this to happen, several things need
to have happened:

UW is correctly configured for its network card

There are several packages of UW software that need to be loaded to make
NW connectivity work.  First, you need to have installed the nics
package that supports your network card. This is where you specify the
IRQ, I/O address, and buffer address, just as you would with NW.

It's possible that a configuration conflict will make your UW network
card able to broadcast packets but not receive them. You can check if
this is happening by watching the traffic on the NW system, which is
covered later. If this is what you notice it is probably a conflict with
the IRQ or the buffer address; it is possible to send packets even if
all you got right is the I/O address, but you can't receive them unless
all three are correct and don't conflict with other settings in your
computer.

If you need to reconfigure the settings for your network card, the
correct thing to do is to reinstall the nics package from the original
installation media (probably a CD). That's the simplest way to get back
to the configuration screen where you enter all the parameters.

UW has the NUC software loaded and configured

The other packages required to get connectivity working correctly are
nwnet, nuc, nwsup,  nsu, and netmgt. Make sure all these packages are
installed. Configuration for these is done with the NW Setup program on
the desktop. Most of the parameters shown are correct for just about
every installation with the default values. The only items you really
need to check are under the Logical LAN Configuration section. The LAN
Device gets filled in with your network card information. To figure out
what frame type to use and what the External LAN address for your NW
network are and get the UW system configured to match, you can LOAD
MONITOR on the NW server. Choose LAN Information, select the appropriate
network card, and a screen showing the frame type and network address
will appear. Get the UW Logical LAN settings to match these. That should
be the only items you need to configure for your initial connections,
the rest are optional parameters you can leave alone for the moment. The
system will reboot itself after this configuration change.

NW has drivers loaded for its network card

Obviously, the NW sever needs to function properly with the network card
installed in it. Usually you can verify it is functioning correctly by
logging on that network with an already configured workstation.

The cable connecting the systems is good

This is an obvious potential problem that usually can be verified by
using that cable in another, known to be correctly configured
application (i.e. using that piece of cable for a workstation connection
elsewhere that you know to be good).

Looking at the communications occurring

After these items are taken care of, you should see the NW servers on
your network in the NW window on the UW machine. If you don't, the next
thing to do is see if the problem is with the NW side or the UW side.
The easiest way to do this is with the NW TRACK ON command. After
executing this command on the system console, you can watch the network
traffic that the NW server sees. After executing TRACK ON, reboot the UW
computer. When it gets to the part where it loads the IPX drivers, some
communication will occur between the UW server and the NW server over
their common network, as SAP packets are sent and routes are traced.
After this, the UW server will show up in the DISPLAY SERVERS listing on
the NW server. Here's what typical traffic on the TRACK display looks
like as a UW server connects and introduces itself to the NW network.
In this example, 00000006 is the external network number for this
segment of ethernet, while 00000009 is the internal network number.
0000C0E2CE12 is the MAC address of the UW computer. OLP1 and OLP2 are
the names of the two NW servers on the network, while OLP4 is the UW
server.

IN  [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:44pm   Get Nearest Server                    
OUT [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:44pm   Give Nearest Server OLP1              
IN  [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:44pm   Get Nearest Server                    
IN  [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:47pm   Route Request                         
OUT [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:47pm   00000001  1/2     00000009  1/2

IN  [00000009:000000000001]  2:56:49pm   OLP1          1                       
IN  [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:51pm   Send All Server Info                  
OUT [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:51pm   CORP          2   OLP1          1     
OUT [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:51pm   OLP1          2   OLP2          2     
OLP2          3

IN  [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:52pm   OLP4          1                       
OUT [00000009:FFFFFFFFFFFF]  2:56:52pm   OLP4          2                       
OUT [00000001:FFFFFFFFFFFF]  2:56:52pm   OLP4          2                       
IN  [00000006:0000C0E2CE12]  2:56:52pm   OLP4          1                       
OUT [00000009:FFFFFFFFFFFF]  2:56:52pm   OLP4          2                       
OUT [00000001:FFFFFFFFFFFF]  2:56:52pm   OLP4          2                       

The Send All Server Info request is what shows all the NW servers in the
NW windows under UW, while the OLP4 related packets are what establish
the UW server in NW's server list. The portions of this communication
that are missing should point you toward where the problem lies. Note
that if you have the newest version of the IPX software, the listing
shown above will be split across the two tracking screens, and will
require very fast fingers to catch before it scrolls away.

Logging into the NetWare server from UnixWare

After you have the two computers talking and showing up on each other's
server lists, the next thing to do is try to log in from the UW server.
After double-clicking on the desktop picture of a NW server, a box
prompting for a login name and password appears. Type them in, and you
should see a list of the volumes on the server. If you don't, there's a
problem with one of the steps listed about; usually errors at this point
for me have been because of configuration problems with the NW side,
causing it not to properly receive packets.

If the login goes well, you are now attached to that NW server and can
now print on it. You can configure the UW printers so that something
sent to one of them actually prints on the NW print queue. This is all
without loading any additional software on the NW server above the
network card drive; you do not need to load the NUC.NLM or any of its
associated NLMs to get this functionality.

Before proceeding any further, you probably should check to see if there
is updated UW software you should load. For my installation, running
with 2.01, to get everything working properly I needed to download a UW
patch called tf2000.ptf from Novell to correct some problems with the UW
NUC support. You might want to search for similar updates; I imagine
that this patch was incorporated into the general 2.02 update that was
recently released for UW, and if you have that this is probably not an
issue.

Logging into the UnixWare server from NetWare

UW comes with an application called TNVT that allows you to run a text
based session on the UW system from your NW workstations. The System
Owner Handbook documentation covers getting this program installed on
your DOS or Windows based workstation in the section titled "Setting up
UW Terminal Emulators for Dos/MS Windows" in the NetWare Connectivity
chapter.  Running this software, you should now be able to get a text
login prompt from any of the NW workstations on your network to the UW
system. Again, this should work with no problems without loading NUC.NLM
or needing to work with TCP/IP.

Looking at the disk volumes on the NetWare server

If things have went well so far, double-clicking on the server icon in
the NW window on your UW system produced a listing of the disk volumes
on that server. But, they probably have red circles with a slash through
them. If you try to open one of these volumes, you'll get an error
telling you to load NUC.NLM. If everything else mentioned so far works
correctly, now is when you consider doing this.

First, a note on what NUC will do for you. Reading the System Owner
Handbook will tell you that you should be able to access the volumes on
your NW server in NW mode even without loading NUC. As of version 2.01
of UW, this was still not true, and considered a bug in the software.
Later versions may iron this out and let you access files with NUC, but,
for the moment, if you want files off the NW server accessible to the UW
server, you need NUC loaded.

Many people have been thwarted by the NUC.NLM installation, because it
doesn't work as expected unless you have a very new server. The
installation instructions are in the NLM Installation and Administration
Guide, which you need to print your own copy of to get.  If you tried to
install NUC and get errors telling you that certain functions were not
available, it's because you need some newer driver software installed on
your server before installing NUC.NLM.  When I contacted Novell, I was
informed that my Novell 3.11 server would never work correctly, because
it was so out of date and its drivers were so old. This is not true;
what follows are the steps I took to take a fairly old (five years)
Novell 3.11 server and make it capable of running NUC without any
problems. You may be able to skip some of these steps, especially if you
have a 4.1 server, because you may already have the proper, new, drivers
installed. All of the drivers mentioned are available either from
NetWire on CompuServe, from ftp.novell.com, from gopher.novell.com, or
http://www.novell.com.

Load PATCHMAN

One of the pieces of NUC.NLM requires that you have the NW PATCHMAN
extensions manager loaded. Most NW servers already have this essential
utility installed, but if yours doesn't, you need it.

Load TCP188.EXE

The version of TCPIP.NLM required is at least 2.02M. If you have an
earlier version, download the TCP188.EXE patch from one of the sources
mentioned above. Running this program produces a series of files; you
need to copy these to a floppy, put it into the file server, and LOAD
INSTALL to install the update (details are give in the documentation for
the update, after you execute the main file). Down the server and reboot
it after this update.

Load LIBUP5.EXE

You need a version of CLIB that is at least 3.12h. If you have an
earlier version, download LIBUP5.EXE. Running this program produces a
series of files that run from your workstation; you need to be logged
into the NW server as a supervisor in order to execute the installation
program.  The last time I got this file, it was mildly corrupted--there
are supposed to be directories created by the program named 3.X and 4.X,
but the copy I got had them named 3X and 4X; accordingly, the
installation program wouldn't run. Creating new 3.X and 4.X directories
and moving the files from the incorrectly named ones solved the problem;
hopefully, by the time you read this the original file should be fixed
and you won't have to worry about this bit of a problem. LIBUP5 installs
a variety of updated system components, as its documentation will
describe; again, you need to reboot after installing this update.

Load NUC.NLM

Following the instructions in the UW documentation, you should have
produced two disks that contain the NUC.NLM program. Before you try and
load it, be sure to LOAD TCPIP on the NW console; the installation
doesn't work correctly if you don't. Also, if you want full remote
console features for UW, you need to have loaded REMOTE and RSPX on the
NW server; otherwise, you'll get a variety of messages saying that
functions whose names begin with RS can't be accessed.  After loading
TCPIP, you can LOAD INSTALL and install the product update. The NUC
installation will ask you where you ran the SERVER.EXE file from when
you booted NW; this is probably C:\NETWARE, but if you're not sure,
you'll need to down the server and look at the computer's AUTOEXEC.BAT
to see for sure. After NUC installs, you should check what it did to
your AUTOEXEC.NCF file to see if you're happy with it before rebooting.
One thing to watch out for is that when the NUC program is loaded, a
bunch of other modules will auto-load themselves; I have had this
process overflow the stack on a server because the modules to auto-load
were nested so deep. My solution is to make sure to LOAD TCPIP before
calling the UNISTART.NCF file.

For reference sake, here's the AUTOEXEC.NCF on my 3.11 server after
installing TCP188, LIBUP5, and NUC; everything here works correctly:

file server name OLP1
ipx internal net 9
load patchman

load ne2000 port=320 int=B name=unix1
bind ipx to unix1 net=6

load remote password
load rspx

# Command to start LAN WorkGroup, NFS, and other products.
load remfilfx
load tcpip
UNISTART.NCF

After making sure you AUTOEXEC.NCF looks all right, reboot the server
yet again and all the NUC programs should load properly. If they don't,
you'll probably have to comment out the UNISTART.NCF line and load the
items contained in it manually to see what the problem is. Here's what a
sample UNISTART.NCF file looks like:

load tsaproxy
load netdb
load unixlib
load nuc
load xconsole

After doing all this, you'll probably find that nothing has changed; you
still can't access your NW volumes. It's possible that you have a newer
copy of NUC that has all the problem worked out, but at the moment you
need to add the NFS name space to your NW volumes in order to mount them
under UW. To do this, type

add name space nfs to volume sys

Replacing sys with whatever volume you want to be able to access. Do
this for each of the volumes (note that this takes a fair amount of time
to execute and uses up a portion of the your disk in the process). After
this, the NW volumes should have the red circle-slash symbol removed,
and you can open them up and look at the files. The load nuc command in
the UNISTART.NCF can be modified to mount a different set of volumes,
but on my configuration as given above all the volumes mount file
without any additional parameters.

The System Owner Handbook implies that you need to do bunches of
configuration with hosts, password, and nfs users and groups before
these functions will work. This is not true; you probably don't need to
touch these files at all to make things work just fine. They are only
necessary if you really want seamless file connections where all the
permissions match across the servers and you can change the attribute of
the files from either server. These are not files you must configure
just for file transfers across the systems.

Conclusion

If you have a clear picture of what order to do things, getting UnixWare
and NetWare connectivity running involves little above the normal
routine of getting cards configured and drivers loaded.  Hopefully this
ordered walkthrough will give you an idea what order to tackle things
in, what the potential problems might be, and what functionality to
expect at each point in the configuration process.

Credits

This is release 1.0 of this document, from September 21, 1995. Written
by Gregory Smith (gsmith@westnet.com). Feel free to use this document
however you wish, as long as no portion of it is distributed without my
name and e-mail address. Additions, corrections, and links to this
document are welcomed.
