
Bywater Software at duke.cs.duke.edu
------------------------------------

All Bywater Software is released under specific copyright claims,
for which see the documentation or source code for any of the 
particular applications.  Be careful to use the binary mode of 
ftp to download these files. The directory /pub/bywater at
duke.cs.duke.edu contains the following files:

sfs101.zoo	zoo'd binaries and support files for Space Flight
		Simulator, version 1.01.  This implementation is for
		the IBM PC and compatibles, and requires Hercules,
		EGA, or VGA graphics. 

map101.zoo	zoo'd binaries and support files for the Map utility
		for the Space Flight Simulator, version 1.01. Same
		requirements as the previous file.

sfs101.tar.Z	tar'd and compressed source code for Space Flight
		Simulator, version 1.01. When uncompressed and un-tar'd, 
		this will produce a directory full of files: "sfs" 
		(the Space Flight Simulator itself). The README file 
		contains information on compiling the program. The 
		document is in the file sfs/doc/sfs.ro and is in "ro" 
		format (see below). Current implementations available 
		are for the IBM PC and compatibles using Hercules, EGA, 
		and VGA graphics, Unix systems utilizing the X Windows 
		system, and the AT&T Unix PC using the TAM interface. 
		The compilation of this program requires prior compilation 
		of the Bywater grahical user interface (see below).

ui101.tar.Z	tar'd and compressed source code for the Bywater
		graphical user interface (ui).  Prior compilation
		of this subsystem is necessary for compilation
		of the Space Flight Simulator (see above). Current
		implementations are for the IBM PC and compatibles
		utilizing the Microsoft QuickC compiler with Hercules,
		EGA, or VGA graphics, for the AT&T Unix PC, and for
		the X Windows system, version 11 (tested only on
		DecStation 3100 and 2100).

smallf.tar.Z	tar'd and compressed files to construct a "smallfont"
		for the AT&T Unix PC/3B1. See the "read.me" file
		included. The smallfont is needed for Unix PC/3B1
		implementation of the ui and Space Flight Simulator
		under TAM.

ro101.tar.Z	tar'd and compressed source code (and PC binary) for
		"ro", an nroff-like text formatter. When uncompressed
		and un-tar'd, this will fill the current directory with
		files. The manual is "ro.doc" which is in ro format.

Users are requested not to move or alter these files without my
permission. Thanks. 

Ted A. Campbell
Bywater Software
P. O. Box 4023
Duke Station
Durham, NC  27706

email: tcamp@hercules.acpub.duke.edu

