NAME
  GlimpseHTTP

WHAT IS GLIMPSE
  Glimpse (which stands for GLobal IMPlicit SEarch) is an indexing and
  query system that allows you to search through lots of files in many
  (possibly nested) directories very quickly.
  Glimpseindex, which you run by saying glimpseindex <directory(ies)>
  builds a very small index (2-5% of the text).
  With it, glimpse can search through all the files in these directories
  much the same way as grep, except that you don't have to specify file 
  names.  Glimpse supports most of agrep's options (agrep is our
  powerful version of grep, and it is part of glimpse) including
  approximate matching (e.g., finding misspelled words), Boolean queries,
  and even some limited forms of regular expressions.

DESCRIPTION
  GlimpseHTTP is a collection of tools that allows you to incorporate
  glimpse in WWW documents.  With it, you can provide general
  search capabilities to any user without incurring too much space 
  overhead.  Furthermore, these tools allow you to integrate search with 
  browsing.  If you have several nested directories which the user may
  browse, you can include the glimpse interface in each document such that
  only the relevant directories will be included in the search.  More
  details are given below.
  The current version of GlimpseHTTP was
  tested under httpd 1.2 HTML server from NCSA and
  Glimpse currently works on many Unix platforms.
  To search and browse the information any HTML browser can be used
  (this includes NCSA Mosaic for X-Windows, MS-Windows and
  Macintosh, Lynx and other browsers. For maximum convenience
  your browser should support forms, although minimal
  functionality can be achieved with any browser).

  Since GlimpseHTTP uses Glimpse, this provides some unique features

  - A very small index (3-5% of the total text).
  - Reasonably fast search.
  - Search for approximate match allowing errors.

  In addition, GlimpseHTTP provides you with the following
  capabilities:

  - You can use a combination of browsing and searching:
    first, you locate the directory where the relevant
    information can be stored, then you can use search
    to locate specific files.
  - The result of the search is a nicely formatted hypertext with
    hyperlinks to matching documents.
  - Following the hyperlink leads you not only to a particular
    file, but also to the exact place where the match occured.
  - Hyperlinks in the documents are converted on the fly to
    actual hyperlinks, which you can follow immediately. This
    makes the GlimpseHTTP particularily suitable for searching
    meta-information (Internet directories etc.).
  - Similar tools are provided for archiving and searching
    USENET newsgroups. You can maintain the archive of news articles
    and allow people to search your archive using the
    same interface. Features supported include kill-file for articles
    and fast search for particular posters. Since news archiver uses
    NNTP interface, you can archive news articles from remote
    news servers. (Browse and search for news is yet to be
    implemented: browsing in this case means selection of pertinent
    newsgroup(s), currently supported is only the search within
    one newsgroup a time)

  Among the possible applications of GlimpseHTTP we envision:

  - FTP sites with search possibilities;
  - news archiving sites;
  - any search application which should be accessed over local
    or global network where searching for approximate match and/or
    saving of disk space for indices is an issue.

GlimpseHTTP components:

  1. aglimpse - "Archive Glimpse" - a tool for searching file
     hierarchies indexed for Glimpse. aglimpse is a CGI-compliant
     program which performs the search and formats the output as 
     HTML document with hyperlinks to the matches.

  2. Administrative tools which facilitate maintaining and
     indexing of Glimpse archives. One of the programs is the
     HTML indexer which prepares hypertext indices for
     each searchable directory - this supports the concept
     of combined browsing and searching.

  3. GlimpseNews - a collection of tools for archiving and
     searching newsgroups archives.

SEE ALSO
	http://glimpse.cs.arizona.edu:1994/glimpsehttp.html -
		GlimpseHTTP home page.
	http://glimpse.cs.arizona.edu:1994 - Glimpse
		developers home page.
	README.install - directions on installing GlimpseHTTP
		on your server.
	README.amgr - description of Archive Manager.
	README.indexing - descriptioN of HTML indexer.

AUTHORS
        Paul Klark (GlimpseHTTP)
        Udi Manber, Sun Wu, and Burra Gopal (Glimpse)
        University of Arizona, Department of Computer Science
	To be put on glimpse mailing list, send mail to
	glimpse-request@cs.arizona.edu
