scripts/
Interpreted programs, mostly ksh and gawk scripts.  These were written for SCO
XENIX and SCO UNIX, but most should be portable to other flavors of UNIX
without too much trouble.  If you don't have ksh for the #!/bin/ksh scripts,
try pd-ksh, bash, or zsh.  For the gawk scripts, use version 2.15.5 or later. 
A gawk 3.0.0 binary for SCO 5.0 can be found in the scobins/ directory.

Filename   Description
add        Add up the numbers in a column in a tab-separated-column file.
address    Look up an address in address databases.
aj         Prints all the "interesting" jobs you are running on any terminal.
altchars   Print alternate character set for a terminal using terminfo database
arc2tarz   Convert an "arc" archive to a compressed tar archive.
asc        Print the ASCII values of text characters.
aw         Report what the active (idle less than 10 minutes) users are doing.
bell       Disable/enable bell on terminals; set visual bell on console.
bigcal     Print a big calendar.
bigfiles   Find large uncompressed files (candidates for compression).
bills      Process a receipts file & generate statistics from it.
brandimg   Imprint text on images.
capture    Capture the current XENIX/UNIX console screen to a file.
cbase      Convert C-style constants to decimal.
checks     Minimal checking account tracking utility.
chr        Print the characters whose ASCII values you give.
client.sh  Minimal shell script version of "client" utility.
cmorse     Convert text to morse code tones (console only).
cmp_termio Compare tty parameters.
comptree   Compares the files in two directory trees.
config     Account configuration utility.
conglom    Concatenate files to other files & remove the originals.
corename   Tell what produced a core file.
dial       Look up and dial a number.
dissociate Run processes dissociated from tty.
dofiles    Deal with all those file that accumulate in your directories.
edcron     Edit your existing crontab file & automatically resubmit it.
efn        Move files by editing their file names with your favorite editor.
exp        Process expenses file to determine amounts owed (man page in doc/).
exp_notify Run expense tracking programs and mail reminders to those who owe.
fb         Command line interface to bc; also invokes bc with high precision.
filt       Pass files through a specified filter.
find_cryst Find a crystal & divisor that will produce a desired freqency.
fix_newsrc Clean up a .newsrc by removing unread article ranges.
fixdate    Fix up the date fields of records in a file.
fixnames   Deal with filenames that contain problematic characters.
fmtawksh   Format awk, sh, and ksh scripts for printing.
frcp       Copy files using ftp but with rcp-type command line syntax.
fs         Show filesystem space and inode usage.
groups     Show what groups you or another user are in.
ibmchars   Diplay IBM extended characters and their decimal and octal values.
iu         List the number of files that exist in and below directories.
l-d        Print a long listing of directories only.
l-len      Print a long directory listing sorted by filename length.
l-z        Print a long directory listing sorted by file size.
lastlogin  Print last login times of users.
lchild     List processes on this tty that have children.
lensort    Sort lines by their length.
libupdate  Update libraries included in interpreted (script) programs.
linerec    Concatenate records into lines.
loginstat  Print statistics on user logins (takes a while to run).
lowercase  Change filenames to lower case.
mail/      Mail utilities.
maim       Kill processes by name.
manifest   Print manifest defines set by cc.
mbill      Process a monthly bills file to track payments.
mkdirlist  Make a file of directory names for searching with 'look'.
mkhexrec   Translate input in a simple format into Intel hex records.
mlast      Report last logins on modem lines.
mlookup    Tell what a mail address will be expanded to.
modems     Show who is using the modems.
msgs       Print the system messages for users.
name       Print the "real" names of users.
ncp        A nicer front end for cp (has -i, etc.).
newext     Change the extension of a group of files.
newinfo    Modify a terminfo description and execute a process using it.
nfile      Run a utility on files & prefix output w/filename being processed.
nmv        A nicer front end for mv (has -i, etc.).
p          A pager front end that handles compressed files.
pages      Print specified pages from files.
postings   Use postings file to generate report of which groups were posted to.
ppmbrowse  Build an image browser.
proctree   Display process parent-child relationships in tree format.
psn        Lists processes whose name matches a pattern.
pss        List processes sorted by any column.
rename     Change the names of files that match a pattern.
repeat     Execute a command multiple times.
segclock   A 25-segment-display clock.
setperm    Copy permissions from a file to others.
settabs    Restore default tabs on an ANSI terminal.
shorten    Make filenames shorter.
sortaddr   Sort an address file.
stfix      Reset various scoterm parameters - pointer, colors, scrolling region
tarz       Create compressed tar archive from directory contents.
te         Locate commands and run other commands on them.
toroff     Converts normal text formatting to *roff formatted text.
u          List the users who are logged on.
ucomm      Show which files lines occur in & select lines based on that.
ulock      Lock all screens that a user is logged into.
unarch     Unarchive a (possibly compressed) tar or cpio file into a directory.
unixtime   Converts UNIX-format time values to human-readable form.
upstat     Shows statistics on uptime, reboots, etc. (long runtime!)
userprocs  Report number of processes each user is running.
uucon      Find last successful UUCP connections.
uudec      Carefully uudecode multiple files.
uuenc      uuencode multiple files.
ve         Edit a file in $EDITPATH
vidtype    Tell what type of video adapter console ttys are associated with.
vtree      Print a visual display of a directory tree.
waiting    Symbolically show process' wait channel (like BSD ps).
where      Show where commands that match a pattern are.
zedit      Edit a compressed file.

