Usage: fwatch [-acme] -f<timeformat> -M<milliseconds> -<seconds> filename ...
fwatch watches files for time changes.
At intervals, it does a stat(S) on each file, and prints on the standard
output the names of those that have had an inode time change (up or
down).  One name is printed per line.  By default, only the modification
time is checked.  The default stat interval is one second.  fwatch
continues executing until killed by a signal.  By default, fwatch will
abort with an error message and nonzero exit value if a file cannot be
stat()ed.
Options:
Note: if an option takes a value, the value must be given immediately
after the option, in the same argument.
-e: Do not print an error message or exit if a file cannot be stat()ed.
    The name of a file is printed if it disappears or can no longer be
    accessed for any other reason, and it is printed again if it comes back.
-f<timeformat>: Before each filename, print the current time.  If
    <timeformat> is non-null, it is used as a time format string (see
    strftime(S)).  If it is null, the UNIX epoch time, in seconds, is
    printed as a fixed-point value with two fractional digits.
If any of the following three options is given, each of the indicated
times will be checked and the filename will be printed if any of them
have changed.  The default is equivalent to given only -m.
-m: Check the modify time.
-a: Check the access time.
-c: Check the creation (inode change) time.
One or both of the following options may be given; if both, the time
between checks is the sum of both times:
-<seconds>: Check file times every <seconds> seconds.
-M<milliseconds>: Check file times every <milliseconds> milliseconds.
    The value given is silently rounded up to the next multiple of the
    system clock interval, typically 10 milliseconds.  Note that if file
    times are being updated by normal means, file times cannot change more
    than once per second (since that is the resolution of the file times),
    so if only normal time updates are being checked for, there is little
    point in checking more than once per second.
