SLIP connectivity with UnixWare 2.x

ISSUE

Note: This document is a modification of the UnixWare 2.0 Online
Doc for SLIP.

CONFIGURING SERIAL LINE IP CONNECTIONS

The Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP) interface lets you
connect to a remote host from a serial port on your computer.

ENABLING DIRECT SLIP CONNECTIONS

To create a direct connection over a serial line for TCP/IP, do
the following: 

1. Make sure there are no port monitors (that is, ttymon)
running on the SLIP port.

To do this, as root, type: 

pmadm -l

and look for the device name to see if there is an active port
monitor on the device [see pmadm(1M)].

2. Using a null modem, create a physical connection from the
serial port on your system to one on a remote system.

3. Add the remote host name and IP address to your local
/etc/hosts file.  Because SLIP is a separate network interface,
you should also add a new host name and IP address for your local
computer to /etc/hosts.  Typically, the host name for the SLIP
interface is formed by adding the suffix _slip to the existing
host name (for example, SystemA_slip).  The IP address for the
SLIP interface on your local host should be on the same subnet as
the remote host.

4. Open a terminal window with root permissions (type su and
password).

5. Enter the /usr/sbin/slattach command. The following is an
example of the 

slattach command: 

     /usr/sbin/slattach tty01h 192.9.200.1 192.9.200.5 9600 &

In this example, TCP/IP serial line communication is enabled to
the remote system connected to your Com2 port (tty01h). The local
IP address is 192.9.200.1 and the remote IP address is
192.9.200.5.  The baud rate on the line is set at 9600.

6. To activate the SLIP connection, ask the system administrator
on the remote system to enter a corresponding slattach command on
the remote system. Using the example slattach command you entered
on your local system in Step 5, the system administrator on the
remote system might type: 

/usr/sbin/slattach tty01h 192.9.200.5 192.9.200.1 9600 &

7. To test the SLIP connection, run TCP/IP utilities (such as
ftp or rlogin) to make sure you can communicate across the SLIP
port. For additional information on configuring SLIP parameters,
see the slattach(1M) manual page.

ENABLING OUTGOING DIALUP SLIP CONNECTIONS

To configure a system for outgoing SLIP calls, you must
configure an outgoing uucp connection. Any valid uucp connection
is acceptable.  In the example below, we used a ZyXEL
Hayes-compatible modem configured to accept outgoing calls and
transfer data at 9600 bps. Many other types of modems can be
used. See the chapter Administering the Basic Networking
Utilities in the part Network Services Administration for further
information on the Systems, Devices, and Dialers files for
configuring uucp connections.

To configure a system for outgoing SLIP calls, do the following:

1. Open a terminal window.

2. As root user, add the following entries To /etc/uucp/Devices
for the Com2 port (use tty00h for Com1): 

Direct tty01h - 9600 direct_modem

ACU tty01h - Any hayes

Note: Adding a device through the graphical interface after
these lines have been added to the Devices file may cause these
entries to be lost or modified.

The carrier that links your machine to the remote machine may
not be available at the time you perform this step. In this case,
you can force the port to be opened without waiting for a carrier
by specifying the optional modem control flag M in the Devices
file entry, as shown here: 

Direct tty01h,M - 9600 direct_modem

ACU tty01h,M - Any hayes

3. Connect the modem to the Com2 port.

4. Change the tty settings in your terminal window [see stty(1)]
to incorporate the following: 

     stty -parenb cs8 9600

The reason these values are important is that when you cu
directly to the port later [see cu(1C)], cu uses the current tty
settings to make the connection. cu might change your modem
settings, automatically based on tty settings.

5. Type the following from the terminal window as root user for
the ZyXEL modem: 

cu -l tty01h

AT S15=130

AT S20=7

ATQ0

AT&W

~.

These settings may vary for each modem you use. In our case, AT
S15=130 sets the modem to no parity. AT S20=7 sets the line speed
to 9600. ATQ0 sets the modem to return the result code. The
setting AT&W writes the change to the modem and ~. returns you to
the shell. These settings may be lost if you turn off the modem
later. To check that the settings are correct, cu to the modem
again and type AT&V0.

Make sure you read your modem manual to set your settings in a
similar fashion.

6. Add an entry to the /etc/uucp/Systems file with the following
attributes: system name (SystemA, the name of the incoming
system), Device Type (ACU), Speed (9600), Phone Number (the phone
number of the remote SLIP host's modem), and Password (password
for remote SLIP user). An example appears below: 

SystemA Any ACU 9600 555-1212 "" \r ogin:--ogin: sllogin word: secret opyright

Note:  You must match speed in the systems file with the baud
rate used on the slattach command.

Notice the letters opyright at the end of the chat script. After
the outgoing side has logged into the remote system with sllogin
and a password of secret, it waits for the letters opyright to
appear before SLIP takes over the connection. The incoming system
prints a Copyright message which matches the opyright the
outgoing system is waiting for.  This prevents the SLIP
connection from timing out before a successful underlying
connection is ready.

7. If the system only makes outgoing connections on this port,
make sure there is no ttymon running on the local port. To do
this, as root user, type: 

pmadm -l

to see which port monitors are active [see pmadm(1M)].

8. Add the remote host name and IP address to your local
/etc/hosts file. Because SLIP is a separate network interface,
you should also add a new host name and IP address for your local
computer to /etc/hosts.  Typically, the host name for the SLIP
interface is formed by adding the suffix _slip to the existing
host name (for example, SystemA_slip).  The IP address for the
SLIP interface on your local host should be on the same subnet as
the remote host.

9. Before you try using this port with TCP/IP utilities (such as
ftp or rlogin), make sure you can use uucp to communicate across
the port. Type: 

cu SystemA

where SystemA is the name of the remote SLIP host you added in
your Systems file.  If you can successfully login to the remote
system, type ~. to terminate the cu session.

10. Make sure the remote system has been configured to permit
dialup SLIP access (see the section "Enabling Incoming Dialup
SLIP Connections" later in this chapter).

11. Open a terminal window with root permissions (type su and
password).

12. To establish the SLIP connection, enter the
/usr/sbin/slattach command. The following is an example of the
slattach command: 

/usr/sbin/slattach +d SystemA 192.9.200.1 192.9.200.5 9600 &

Note: The baud rate used must match the baud rate for SystemA in
the /etc/uucp/Systems file!

In this example, TCP/IP serial line communication is enabled to
the remote uucp system name SystemA.  The local IP address is
192.9.200.1 and the remote IP address is 192.9.200.5.  The baud
rate on the line is set at 9600.

For additional information about configuring SLIP parameters,
see the slattach(1M) manual page.

ENABLING INCOMING DIALUP SLIP CONNECTIONS

To configure a system for incoming SLIP calls, do the following:

     NOTE: To add additional incoming dialup SLIP connections,
repeat the following

     procedure, skipping Step 2 (since the slip group will
already exist).

1. Open a terminal window with root permissions (type su and
password).

2. Type: 

     groupadd slip

     to create a group for the SLIP users.

3. Change to the directory /usr/lib/slip.

4. Copy the sample SLIP login shell file sliplogin.samp to sllogin.

5. Type: 

     chgrp slip sllogin

     to assign ownership of the sllogin file to the slip group.

6. Type: 

     chmod g+s sllogin

     chmod u+s sllogin

     to assign permissions to the sllogin file.

NOTE: The owner of the sllogin file must be root!

7. Edit the sllogin file, changing the values for the variables
OPTIONS, LOCAL_ADDRESS, and REMOTE_ADDRESS, where OPTIONS
specifies one or more slattach command options for the incoming
SLIP login shell, and LOCAL_ADDRESS and REMOTE_ADDRESS specify
the IP address of the SLIP interface for the local host and the
remote host respectively, as defined in your local /etc/hosts
file. Note: You must change the TTY='tty' to the serial device
you use for

the slip connection. ie. TTY=/dev/tty00h.

8. Type: 

     useradd -g slip -d /usr/lib/slip -s /usr/lib/slip/sllogin \

      -c "slip user for hostname" sllogin

to add the slip group to the Identification and Authentication (I&A) database.

9. Type:

     passwd sllogin

     Enter your password for the slip users eg. "secret".

For additional information about configuring SLIP parameters,
see the slattach(1M) manual page.

DISABLING SLIP CONNECTIONS

To disable a SLIP connection, do the following: 

1. Open a terminal window with root permissions (type su and
password).

2. Type the following to obtain the process ID of the slattach
process: 

     ps -ef | grep slattach

3. Using the process ID of the slattach process, type the
following command: 

     kill -HUP pid

where pid is the process ID of the running slattach process.

4. Display the routing table entry for the SLIP connection to
the remote host by typing: 

     netstat -r

     If an entry still exists in the routing table, you should
see an entry similar to the

     following: 

     192.9.200.5  192.9.200.1  UH  0 36 sl0

5. If no routing table entry displayed in Step 4 for the SLIP
connection, skip this step.

Otherwise, using the IP addresses displayed in Step 4, manually
remove the routing information associated with the SLIP
connection using the route(1M) command. For example: 

     /usr/sbin/route delete 192.9.200.5 192.9.200.1

In this example, 192.9.200.5 is the IP address of the remote
host and 192.9.200.1 is the local IP address for your computer as
it is known to the SLIP interface.


