admin/
Administrative utilities.  These were written for SCO XENIX and SCO UNIX,
but most should be portable to other flavors of UNIX without too much trouble.
If you don't have ksh for the #!/bin/ksh scripts, try pd-ksh, bash, or zsh.
Many of them require gawk, version 2.15.5 or later.  Some require gawk 3.0.0
or later.  A gawk 3.0.0 binary for SCO 5.0 can be found in the scobins/
directory.

Filename   Description
adduser    Add a user to the system (for SCO).  Needs makepass.
autologin  Automatically log in a user on a specific tty, to be run from init.
callout    Turn uucico or cu callout on and off.
checkhomes Find home directories that are writable by anyone.
checkown   Check files that should have the same name as their owner.
chfssize   Increase size of a filesystem.  Requires asc and chr (in scripts/).
chkbackup  Check multi-extent tape backups.
chkboot    Check or rewrite masterboot, boot0, and boot1 files.
chkdaemon  Restart daemons that have died.
chklost    Report types of files in lost+found directories.
chksulog   Print interesting lines from su(C) logfile.
chuser     Change user's login name.
divisions  Generate report on fdisk & divvy layout of system hard drives.
fbackup    cpio filesystem backup utility.
fdminor    Show meaning of floppy drive device node minor numbers.
ftplog     Generate transfer report from wuftpd log file.
ftpreport  Mail ftp transfer reports to users.
hdminor    Show meaning of hard drive device node minor numbers.
kvar       Print values of kernel variables.
ld_unix    Link a new kernel from object files without rebuilding it.
logins     Enable or disable logins without changing init state.
makepass.tar.Z Generate passwords; used by 'adduser'
maxtable   Print highest usage of various kernel tables found in sar logs.
memuse     Show real & swap memory usage.
mk_hexkeys Create a mapkey file that allows hexadecimal input of any character.
mvuser     Move a user's home directory to a different parent directory.
newinittab Build a new inittab file.
nidleout   An idleout that allows user- tty-, and process-specific behaviour.
numexec    Process pacct file & report on # of times each process executed.
oldusers   Find users who have not logged in for a specified period.
pacctmon   Show processes as they exit, using the process accounting system.
pareacct   Reduce disk space usage of users by removing large/old files.
peakprocs  Find peak number of processes that ran (using pacct logs).
psf        Show processes that have particular files open.
ptyclean   Print or kill off processes on ptys whose master side has closed.
quota      Warn users re disk usage on systems w/o real quotas.
quotcmp    Compare the output of two or more runs of quot(C)
saravg     Show averages lines only from sar output.
treset     Reset ttys by killing gettys.
typematic  Set typematic rate of AT keyboard.
usage      Builds database use by 'quota'.
vectors    Show what interrupts are used for.

